Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
No fewer than 100 AK-47 rifles and 2600 pieces of ammunition were carted away from stations under the Lagos command of the Nigerian police.
CP Yaro Abutu, chairman of the Inspector-General of Police Committee on EndSARS Protest Damage Assessment stated this Nov 10.
The 10-man committee also stated that 37 police formations were attacked during the widespread violence in the state while 367 vehicles, including 10 Armoured Personnel Carrier, saloon cars and Hilux vans were burnt.
Abutu said it was unfortunate the destruction happened towards the end of the year “when there is a surge in criminality all over the country.”
“We are taking a tour around the 17 states where burning of police facilities and killing of police personnel occurred. Since Lagos is the epicentre we decided to come to Lagos first. Thirty seven police stations were attacked in Lagos and about 30 per cent of the police infrastructure in the state has been crippled.
“Also, a lot of arms and ammunition were carted away. We are still counting and collating. In some police stations, 15 to 30 firearms and a number of ammunition were stolen. So far from our preliminary report, about 100 pieces of AK-47 cannot be accounted for and up to 2,600 pieces of ammunition are missing. This is when criminals become more aggressive whereas police equipment has been crippled. It is pathetic.”
Abutu appealed to hoodlums that took the weapons to return them to the nearest police station or community leaders.
“One of them was returned to the Area Commander Ajah, ACP Gbolahan. It was found somewhere and the community alerted him.
“They (policemen) went to pick it. If the community sees it (firearm) and refuses to report, the weapon will still be used to unleash terror on the population. That is why we are appealing to community leaders, youths and other stakeholders to be on the lookout.”
For three days in October, Nigeria slid into lawlessness and law enforcement and security agencies were apparently overwhelmed with pace of looting, arson, and vandalism of government and private properties.
Share this on WhatsApp