Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Intelligence Bureau of the Police Command in Edo State has petitioned the Force Headquarters, Abuja, disputing the authenticity of a voice message by a cultist on the social media alleging issuance of quit notice to members of a cult gang in the state by Edo State Police Command.

Garba Shehu, Officer In-Charge, State Intelligence Bureau, Edo State, in a letter, SJ:4161/EDS/SIB/VOL.41/56, dated 20thNovember 2020, to theDeputy Inspector General of Police, Force Intelligence Bureau, Force CID Complex, Area 10, Garki, Abuja, alerted the DIG of a “Situation report on false/misleading voice note circulating on social media,” which he linked to a cultist staying in India.

SP Shehu drew the attention of the Bureau to “an audio voice note recorded by one Peranty ‘m’ with phone numbers +919599266423 and +919315696850 who resides in India and a member of Eiye secret cult group, circulating on social media that one Oga Garuba and Bright of Edo Police Command have told him to tell his members to leave Upper Sokponba, St. Saviour, Erediawa and Evbuoriaria areas of Benin City to relocate to other areas like Aduwawa in Benin, Warri and Agbor in Delta State, etc. as the killing in those areas have become too much.” SP Shehu disclosed that Peranty further said that “the Police want to carry out raid in these areas and anyone found wanting will be sent to jail and that as they are hearing the said voice note, they should carry their bags and relocate to come back by January, 2021. That the hood will not be responsible for the release of anybody.”
Shehu said that the said story circulating on the social media is a cheap blackmail and a plot to extort money from his cult members within the period and also attract false connection that will ridicule the personality of the officers who have been fighting crime in the state. He assured that the police is on the tracking of the suspects for proper investigation and prosecution, saying that there was never any leakage of information from officers of the state command. SP Shehu that the state command never contemplated any of the information the cultist relayed on the social media voice message, saying it is a simple plot to incriminate innocent police officers.
“I, therefore, state that the story is false, misleading and mischievous and should be disregarded.
“Therefore, covert and overt intelligence is piling up on the activities of the said person and his members in order to be brought to book and deter their plans.
“Above for your information as monitoring of the activities of the identified person is ongoing, please,” SP Shehu declared.
Share this on WhatsApp