Share this on WhatsApp





The All Progressives Congress in Venue on Saturday issued a 24-hour ultimatum to Okpoku Ogenyi, to withdraw his allegations against the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Planning Committee, or face serious sanctions.

The ultimatum was handed by the state chairman of the party, Abba Yaro, adding that failure to do so would lead to sanctions.

Yaro also dismissed threats issued by Ogenyi, and other concerned APC members, to drag the party to court should it fail to hold a National Convention by December 2020.

It will be recalled that Ogenyi had at a media briefing, in Abuja on Friday rejected the planned membership registration while accusing the Caretaker Committee of lacking legitimacy.

Ogenyi, during the press briefing, also demanded that the Buni-led Committee be replaced saying.

He said: “The most senior member of the sacked (Adams) Oshiohmole-led NWC should be returned as chairman because that is what our party constitution says. We call on state chairmen of the party not to join the illegal registration because it is tailored for their removal from office in the long run.”

However, Yaro, in a statement on Saturday, said the aggrieved member’s view’s should be ignored.



 


He said: “From the APC membership registration, update, revalidation exercise to the successful and ongoing reconciliation efforts, among other ongoing activities of the CECPC, all identified stakeholders led by our President, Muhammadu Buhari as leader of our party, the Progressives Governors Forum, state chapters, National Assembly leadership are regularly consulted and carried along on all decisions by the CECPC.
“Okpoku Ogenyi is strongly advised to withdraw within 24 hours his baseless allegations which he made in a television interview on Friday or face disciplinary actions.
“He should tender an apology to the Caretaker Committee over his tactless and ill-motivated attempt to bring the party to disrepute.
“We urge our teeming members and supporters to disregard Okpoku Ogenyi and his comments.
“He is an impostor and a hired fifth-columnist. Okpoku Ogenyi did not purchase the Benue State Governorship aspirant form as wrongly addressed as an aspirant in the television interview.”






Share this on WhatsApp