Share this on WhatsApp





 


The Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Chief Festus Keyamo, meeting with the Ovie of Uvwie Kingdom, His Royal Majesty, Dr. Emmanuel E. Sideso, Abe 1 JP., council of chiefs, communities, women and youths leaders at the palace of the  traditional ruler, in his consultations in Delta State, emphasized that the recent #EndSARS protest by Nigerian youths generated ethnic tension across the country. President Muhammadu Buhari had on Tuesday directed all ministers, members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to return to their respective states for consultations with their people over the recent #ENDsars protests in Nigeria.
Keyamo remarking that the #EndSARS protest resulted to ethnic tension in the country, appealed to community leaders and traditional rulers to accommodate President Buhari’s belief in peace and Nigeria as one indivisible country.
The Minister of State had solicited cooperation of the people with security operatives towards containing crimes and insecurity in the country. He conveyed the commendation of the federal government to the people of Uvwie for sustaining peace in their domain and resisting the temptation to be parts of the #Endsars protest. Keyamo promised the community that every expectation from the federal government will not be denied the community and the people.
The Ovie of Uvwie Kingdom, His Royal Majesty, Dr. Emmanuel E. Sideso, Abe 1 JP., commended President Buhari for extending his message of peace to the community. He assured of sustained peace in the kingdom.
“Please let the President be aware of our collective assurance to continue to sustain the peace in our Kingdom and to work assiduously for the corporate existence of our country, Nigeria,” the traditional ruler declared.
He stated that all ethnic nationalities within the Kingdom have been integrated into the traditional governance of Uvwie. The Dr. Sideso, Abe 1 JP. assured the president that Uvwie will continue to be hospitable and receptive to all indigenes of Nigeria who wish to live peacefully in the kingdom.
Dr. Sideso, Abe 1 JP. acknowledged that sustenance of peace and security requires the cooperation of everyone in the community. He, however, admonished that grey areas capable of threatening peace or stimulating breach of security or agitation should be tackled by the government. The traditional ruler subsequently appealed to President Buhari to intervene in the crisis of the illegally occupied land in Uvwie by the Nigeria Army. “The patience of Uvwie people is running out over the continued illegal occupation of the land in Uvwie by the Nigeria Army,” the traditional ruler declared. He demanded immediate vacation and restoration of 436 acres (185.20 hectares) land mass coercively acquired more than what was in gazette to the Uvwie people.
The minister assured that activities would resume at the Osubi Airport in two weeks, noting that President Buhari has directed the NNPC to take over the airport.
Keyamo promised to convey the demands On the Uvwie land illegally occupied by the Nigerian Army to the appropriate authorities. He also told the youths and women to take advantage of the N75 billion Survival Fund being rolled out by President Buhari to alleviate the hardship in the country. The Minister encouraged them to apply for government assistance.





Share this on WhatsApp