Share this on WhatsApp
 


Mixed reactions have continued to trail the claims of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, that Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari, was long dead.
Kanu, who is based in the United Kingdom, has also consistently claimed that the Buhari that was elected in 2015 as President, was buried in Saudi Arabia and the man currently in Aso Rock is one Yusuf Abubakar Mohammed from Niger Republic, who also replaced another impostor, Jubril Al-Sudani.
Kanu reiterated these claims during an exclusive interview with Nigerian journalist, Dele Momodu, on Instagram Live earlier in the week.
In the interview, Kanu alleged that the African Union and the Queen of England had already acknowledged the death of Buhari, and that he (Kanu) was willing to give up on Biafra if his allegations against the presidency were false.
“The person you have in Aso Rock is from Niger Republic. His name is Yusuf Abubakar Mohammed. Even Shekau knows him and mentioned his name as well. Buhari is dead and I’m ready to stake my life and Biafra on it”
He further challenged the Presidency to clear up the allegation by addressing a team of Nigerian youths in his native dialect, Fulfulde.
A tweeter, @TH_communcator said, “I couldn’t laugh when Nnamdi Kanu said the Jubril from Sudan that replaced Buhari after he died has fled back to Sudan. We now have Yusuf Abubakar from Niger republic in Aso rock. 3 persons replacing Buhari within 4 years? We joke a lot in this country honestly.
Another tweeter who goes by the name of @obyobiasogu, said: Nnamdi Kanu has given Femi Adesina another big task, where Femi is right now he is wondering how to teach the person in Aso Rock Fulfulde in one week.
In his own tweet,  @triviabusola tweeted: “Nnamdi Kanu may have his own personal problems and stuff but his claim of a dead Buhari is a very big one!  Why did he choose to go down that path? Why is nobody from the govt/cabal refuting it?? Why hasn’t the so-called president come out LIVE to talk to his compatriots?
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp