Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The United States medical team constituting Joe Biden’s COVID-19 taskforce has rolled out compulsory COVID-19 vaccination for American citizens. An enforcement document from Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health’s Center for Health Security contains sanctions for citizens who decline the mandatory coronavirus vaccinations in the US. According to the document, “Americans who refuse to get mandated COVID-19 vaccinations may lose benefits such as food stamps (WIC) and rent assistance.”
The document further indicated that one of the top members of the “Working Group of Readying Populations for COVIS-19 Vaccines” is Luciana Borio, MD, a prominent member of Joe Biden’s COVID-19 taskforce.”
Dr. Anthony Fauci has continued to be in the news on COVID-19 vaccination controversies. Fauci disclosed that provisions have been made for 20 million American citizens to receive vaccinations at the end of year 2020.
A report indicated that, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, stated on Tuesday that about 20 million Americans could benefit from the COVID-19 vaccinations at the end of the year.
Fauci further stated that Pfizer could supply about 25 million doses of vaccine, while Modema may provide 15 million doses within the projected period. It was noted that the vaccination is administered in two shots, which implied that the total of 40 million doses would be administered on 20 million people to be protected from coronavirus infection.
There are, however, skepticism about the Pfizer vaccines. A report indicated: “But there are concerns as well. Pfizer and BioNTech’s latest announcement came, for the second time, in a press release instead of a peer-reviewed paper.” The companies were said to have disclosed  more on the demographics of their clinical trial than in their first report. It was further noted that BNT162b2 has some of the most stringent cold storage requirements, which need temperatures of -70 degrees Celsius (-94 degrees Fahrenheit) or lower, which may make widespread distribution challenging.
Also, being administered in two doses spaced several weeks apart; is perceived to have huge logistical burden of rolling out the vaccine.
Apparently, experts identified challenges that are yet to be resolved before the mandatory COVID-19 vaccination of the US citizens.
 
Share this on WhatsApp