Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State is set for inauguration for a second tenure on Thursday after his victory in the September 19 governorship election in the state. The governor, accordingly, dissolved the state executive council on Wednesday to signal the end of the first tenure.  
Governor Obaseki announced the dissolution of the state cabinet at a valedictory executive council session at the Government House, G.R.A., Benin City. He commended the outgoing council members for selfless service to the state.
Obaseki stated: “Since I became governor, I didn’t sack any commissioner, but rather they sacked me by resigning from my cabinet. What is important in government are the core values of truth, justice, and fairness.
“When elected to serve the people, let us truly serve the people, as we will give account to God. I can’t claim success alone, what I did was to create the opportunity for you to serve.”
Obaseki former acquainted the members of the dissolved of their role in the emerging tenure. “You are all part of this administration and architects of the new design for the growth and development of the state,” the governor said.
The Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu, eulogized Governor Obaseki for his leadership virtue, remarking that all former members of the state cabinet learnt from his political ideology.
Shaibu assured the governor of continuous support in his leadership of Edo State, saying: “You have shown that you are a good leader. I appeal to you to continue with the good works. God has put you as the governor to lead Edo to a greater height and we all will continue to support you.”
The Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie Esq., also commended Governor Obaseki for his leadership virtue, saying that the governor’s leadership style stimulated the cabinet members to be efficient and effective in-service delivery.
The inauguration of Governor Obaseki for second tenure holds on Thursday in Benin City. The governor is expected to make new appointments of commissioners into the state executive council which he will reconstitute thereafter.
Share this on WhatsApp