Share this on WhatsApp“Way Maker,” written by Osinachi Kalu Okoro Egbu, won song of the year (five years after it was first recorded) at the 51st GMA Dove Awards, which aired Friday (Oct. 30) on TBN. The song has been covered by several prominent Christian music artists in the past two years, including Michael W. Smith, Mandisa and Bethel Music.

For King & Country won artist of the year. The Australian brother duo, consisting of Joel and Luke Smallbone, is the first duo ever to win in that top category.

For King & Country also won short form video of the year for “God Only Knows,” a collab with Dolly Parton. For King… is one of seven artists who won two awards this year. The others are Tauren Wells, Tasha Cobbs Leonard, Selah, Hillsong Worship, Skillet and Elevation Worship.

Parton wasn’t the only artist who is famous in the secular world to win: Kanye West won rap/hip hop recorded song of the year for “Follow God.”

Zach Williams & For King & Country Lead GMA Dove Awards Nominees With 5 Nods, Kanye West Nabs 3
Zach Williams, the 2018 artist of the year winner, won songwriter of the year (artist) for the first time. Jason Ingram took songwriter of the year (non-artist) for the second year in a row and the third time in five years.

We the Kingdom, a family quintet that originated in Nashville, won new artist of the year.

Tasha Cobbs Leonard, For King & Country & More to Perform on GMA Dove Awards.

Here’s the complete list of winners:

Artist of the year:
for KING & COUNTRY

Song of the year:
“Way Maker”
Writer: Osinachi Kalu Okoro Egbu; Publisher: Integrity Music Europe

Songwriter of the year – artist:
Zach Williams

Songwriter of the year – non artist:
Jason Ingram

Producer of the year:
Ed Cash & Steven V. Taylor (Team)

Lauren Daigle Dominates 2019 Dove Awards
New artist of the year:
We The Kingdom

Contemporary Christian artist of the year:
Tauren Wells

Gospel artist of the year:
Tasha Cobbs Leonard

Southern gospel artist of the year:
Joseph Habedank

Inspirational film of the year:
I Still Believe
Directors: Andrew Erwin, Jon Erwin, (Producers) Kevin Downes, Andrew Erwin, Jon Erwin

Long form video of the year:
Awake (Live), Hillsong Worship
Directors: Richard Cause, Jared Chapman, Paul Martin, Samuel Irving, Steven Lester; Producers: Johnny Rays, Jessica Ico, Steven Lester

Short form video of the year:
“God Only Knows,” for KING & COUNTRY featuring Dolly Parton
Directors/producers: Ben Smallbone, Patrick Tohill

Bluegrass/country/roots album of the year:
God & Country, Jimmy Fortune
Producer: Ben Isaacs

Bluegrass/country/roots recorded song of the year:
“Ain’t No Grave,” Karen Peck & New River
Writers: Jonathan David Helser, Melissa Helser, Molly Skaggs

Children’s album of the year:
Sing: Remembering Songs, Ellie Holcomb
Producers: Nate Dugger, Brown Bannister

Choral collection of the year:
Top Anthem Collection
Creator: Johnathan Crumpton; Arrangers: Bradley Knight, Cliff Duren, Mike Speck, Marty Parks, Daniel Semsen, Gary Rhodes, Dave Williamson, Geron Davis, Tom Fettke, Russell Mauldin

Christmas/special event album of the year:
Christmas, Phil Wickham
Producer: Jonathan Smith

Contemporary gospel album of the year:
LONG LIVE LOVE, Kirk Franklin
Producers: Kirk Franklin, Shaun Martin, Maxwell Stark, Ronald Hill, S1 for SKP. Inc.

Contemporary gospel recorded song of the year:
“People,” Jonathan McReynolds
Writer: Jonathan McReynolds

Gospel worship album of the year:
Broken Record, Travis Greene
Producers: Travis Greene, Brunes Charles

Gospel worship recorded song of the year:
“Something Has to Break (Live),” Kierra Sheard, featuring Tasha Cobbs Leonard
Writers: J. Drew Sheard, Kierra Valencia Sheard, Mia Fieldes, Jonathan Smith

Inspirational album of the year:
Firm Foundation, Selah
Producers: Brent Milligan, Chris Bevins, Jason Kyle Saetveit

Inspirational recorded song of the year:
“Yet Not I But Through Christ In Me,” Selah
Writers: Michael Farren, Rich Thompson, Jonny Robinson

Instrumental album of the year:
Untitled Hymn: A Collection of Hymns (Instrumental), Chris Rice
Producers: Chris Rice, Ken Lewis

Musical of the year:
Messiah Overcame – An Easter Musical
Creators: Mike Harland, John Rowsey, (Arrangers/Orchestrators) Cliff Duren, Jim Hammerly, Christopher Phillips, Phil Nitz

Pop/contemporary album of the year:
Citizen of Heaven, Tauren Wells
Producers: Chuck Butler, Jordan Sapp, Kirk Franklin, Max Stark, Colby Wedgeworth, Rascal Flatts

Pop/contemporary recorded song of the year:
“Rescue,” Lauren Daigle
Writers: Jason Ingram, Lauren Daigle, Paul Mabury

Rap/hip hop album of the year:
MOOD // DOOM, Social Club Misfits
Producers: Young Sidechain, Dirty Rice, Cardec, Ben Lopez, Colby Wedgeworth, Tedd Tjornhom, Martin Santiago, Dave James, Rey King, Jordan Sapp

Rap/hip hop recorded song of the year:
“Follow God,” Kanye West
Writer: Kanye West

Recorded music packaging of the year:
Rescue Story (Zach Williams, not awarded to artist)
Art director/graphic artist: Tim Parker; Photographer: Eric Brown

Rock/contemporary album of the year:
Victorious, Skillet
Producers: John Cooper, Korey Cooper, Kevin Churko, Seth Mosley, Mike “X” O’Connor

Rock/contemporary recorded song of the year:
“Legendary,” Skillet
Writers: John L. Cooper, Korey Cooper, Seth Mosley

Southern gospel album of the year:
Pure Love, Legacy Five
Producers: Scott Fowler, Wayne Haun, Trey Ivey

Southern gospel recorded song of the year:
“The Power of an Empty Tomb,” The Erwins
Writer: Joel Lindsey

Spanish language album of the year:
Aleluya (En La Tierra), Elevation Worship
Producers: Chris Brown, Steven Furtick

Spanish language recorded song of the year:
“Loco Amor,” Christine D’Clario
Writers: Chris McClarney, Jacob Sooter, Ricky Jackson

Traditional gospel album of the year:
The Return, The Clark Sisters
Producers: J. Drew Sheard II, Warryn Campbell, Eric Dawkins, Mano Hanes, Rodney Jerkins, Justin Brooks, Jermaine Dupri, Damien Sneed, Kurt Carr, Karen Clark-Sheard

Traditional gospel recorded song of the year:
“I’m All In,” Maranda Curtis
Writers: Maranda Curtis, Dana Sorey, Asaph Ward

Worship album of the year:
Awake, Hillsong Worship
Producers: Michael Guy Chislett, Brooke Ligertwood, Ben Tan, Ben Tennikoff

Worship recorded song of the year:
“The Blessing (Live),” Kari Jobe, Cody Carnes, Elevation Worship
Writers: Kari Jobe Carnes, Cody Carnes, Chris Brown, Steven Furtick

Youth/children’s musical of the year:
Good News Ahead…The Signs of Christmas!
Creators: Gina Boe, Barb Dorn


Share this on WhatsApp