Share this on WhatsApp





 


The Management and Staff of Paradigm Communications Limited identify with the family and associates of an erudite scholar and a perfectionist, Barrister Chris Akiri, on his departure to the world beyond. Barrister Chris Akiri, until his death, was the Chairman of the Editorial Board of NATIONAL DAILY Newspaper, a publication of Paradigm communications Limited, a media platform located in Lagos.
Barrister Akiri was renowned for his eloquence in the use of English and his skillful writing. He was a role model to all the Editorial Staff of Paradigm Communications Limited. His vast knowledge on national and international issues spreads across virtually all spheres of learning – law, Politics, medicine, management, engineering and the different fields of science and technology.
To some his brain was synonymous with ‘mobile library’ where anyone could source knowledge at any moment on short notice.
In August 2017, Barrister Akiri revealed briefly what life was like when he came to the world: “full of challenges and obstacles,” mostly. He then shared how with the help of God and mother’s devotion, he got on the path of achievement to high pedestal.
Today, the trajectory of the erudite lawyer blazes with success and perfection.  In everything he addressed himself to accomplish, he succeeded: as a family man, lawyer, journalist, academician, businessman, leader, and patriot.
Born in Kokori-Inland in Ethiope East Local Government Area, Delta State, Nigeria, Akiri had his primary and secondary school education, respectively, at Ode-Irele, Ondo State, and Ile-Ife, Osun State. He attended the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, where he studied History, Political Science and French and obtained a B.A. (Hons.) Degree in History. Barrister Akiri in one of his books recalled how bad he felt when he was awarded B.A. (Hons.) Second Class Lower Division, by the Department of History at the University of Ibadan. He felt so disappointed. He, then, proceeded to the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, where he obtained LL. B (Hons.), Degree, Second Upper Division, and a Master of Law (LLM), magna cum laude. Barrister Akiri was called to the Nigerian Bar, becoming a Solicitor and Advocate of the Supreme Court of Nigeria in 1992.
Barrister Chris Akiri was also an alumnus of several tertiary institutions, including, but not limited to, the University of Bradford, Yorkshire, England; Urwick Management Centre, Slough, in Reading, England; London University, London, and Penn State University, USA. He was, at different times, Lecturer at the Federal Government College, Maiduguri, Borno State; Project Officer, World Bank (IDA/IBRD) Education Projects in the Bureau for External Aid, Federal Ministry of Education, and Company Secretary/General Manager and Executive Director, Western Textile Mills Plc. He headed the Human Resources Department of Merchant Bank for Africa Ltd. (MBA) and, later, the Human Resources, Administration and Corporate Affairs Division of Universal Trust Bank, Plc.
He was the Managing Partner of Chris W.A Akiri & Co., a firm of legal practitioners, he played a dominant role as a member of the Think-Tank representing Delta State at the 2005 National Political Reforms Conference in Abuja. He was, for almost ten years, a member of the Editorial Board of The Guardian Newspaper; a Board member of the National Freshwater Fisheries Research Institute (NIFFRI), New Bussa; Chairman of the Editorial Board of National Daily; Chairman, Capstone Microfinance Bank Ltd. And Legal Adviser, Editorial Board of the Sun newspapers. He is the author of several books which include: “Topics in African and European History”, “ The British Imperial Factor and African Nationalist Development in South Africa: 1871-1931”,  “ The Way It Is” ( Vols. 1&2). Barrister Akiri was also a regular television commentator and a columnist in several newspapers.
 





Share this on WhatsApp