Share this on WhatsApp
 


State governors have waded into the protracted crisis between the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the federal government which has led to shutdown of the nation’s universities for about eight months.
They are pleading with the Federal Government to create a temporary salary payment window pending the outcome of the ongoing testing of the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS), recommended by ASUU.
It was learnt that the governors have met with some past leaders of ASUU on how to end the strike on mutual terms.
ASUU has been on strike since March 23, leading to a near loss of 2019/2020 academic session.
According to investigation, the governors are disturbed by the consequences of the continued closure of the universities on the future of younger generation.
The governors felt the deadlock in talks between ASUU and the Federal Government was amenable.
It was also gathered that the governors felt they could fill in the gaps between the two parties without bruising any side.
A source, who was in the know of the intervention, said they identified the row over IPPIS as compounding the negotiation with ASUU.
The source said: “The governors have met behind-the-scene with all the ministers either involved or connected with the negotiation with ASUU.
“During a session with the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, the governors’ representatives asked the Federal Government to create a temporary salary payment window which can be a stop-gap between IPPIS and UTAS.
“They said the temporary payment modality will subsist until UTAS or any other payment is agreed upon by both parties. They said the nation cannot afford to continue to shut down its varsities endlessly.”
“The two sides need to face the reality of the economic challenges at hand and accommodate all issues within the nation’s capacity. We believe, there are quick win demands of ASUU and there are long-term ones. But with sincere dialogue, the Federal Government and ASUU can reach amicable agreement.”
The conciliator between the two parties, Minister of Labour and Employment Dr. Chris Ngige, last week said the Federal Government had tried its best to meet the demands of ASUU.

Share this on WhatsApp