Share this on WhatsApp
 


A Nigerian-born researcher and medical expert, Onyema Ogbuagu, leading the Pfizer research on COVID-19 vaccine, has dismissed misconceptions about the COVID-19 vaccine, saying there is no conspiracy in the development of the vaccine.
Ogbuagu, identified as an Associate Professor of Medicine at Yale University, is among those leading the research at Pfizer for a COVID-19 vaccine in the United States. Ogbuagu in a series on Tweet on some misconceptions about the vaccine, on his official handle, cautioned that misinformation about the pandemic may lead to loss of lives.
Ogbuagu in the Tweets wrote:
“Let’s dispel some rumors especially because misinformation about COVID-19 may and can cost lives. Enough already!
“Vaccine efficacy results are real. They were not delayed to hurt or help any politician.
“The Pfizer vaccine doesn’t contain the SARS CoV-2 virus or parts of it!
“No nefarious or sinister plan to inject people with a labeling code. The mRNA vaccine is not integrated into recipient’s genome.
“No fetal tissue is used for the mRNA vaccine.
“And No…researchers such as myself are not part of any conspiracies.
“We just want to apply science to improve patient outcomes and even better, to prevent disease.
“We can only work our way out of this pandemic through effective vaccines especially because it is difficult to achieve optimal mask-wearing and physical distancing to end the pandemic.
“Think of how vaccines have made deadly diseases either go away (smallpox) or become relatively rare (such as measles).
“When the “COVID” vaccine becomes available, let’s roll up our sleeves and let’s end this thing!
“Another challenge would be the equitable distribution of vaccines.
“High vs. low/middle-income countries, and even in developed nations, to ensure that vulnerable and underserved populations, disproportionately affected by the pandemic are proportionally reached!
“Now is time for strategic distribution plans at global, national, and community level.”
Share this on WhatsApp