Share this on WhatsApp
 


The United States of America (USA) and Israel have agreed to assist Sudan in restoring peace in the country and with its neighbours, including democratic transition.
President Donald J. Trump of the US, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Sudanese Chairman of the Sovereignty Council, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, Prime Minister of Sudan, Abdalla Hamdok, collectively deliberated  on historic progress made in restoring democracy and promote peace in Sudan and the sub region.
Sudan has been under brutal dictatorship in the past decades. However, hope is emerging as citizens are gradually being integrated into the governance of Sudan.
The Sudanese transitional government is displaying courage and commitment to deal with terrorism in the country, building democratic institutions, and improving relations with neighbors.
President Trump is encouraging the historic progress in Sudan. President Trump, accordingly, decided to delete Sudan from the list of State Sponsors of Terrorism. The United States and Israel resolved to partner Sudan in its democratization and peace building initiatives; prepared to provide support to ensure full integration of Sudan into the international community.  Trump assured that the US will facilitate the restoration of Sudan’s sovereign immunity and engage its international partners to reduce Sudan’s debt burdens, including promoting debates on debt forgiveness outlined in the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative.  The US and Israel intend to work with their partners to assist the people of Sudan in consolidating and stabilizing democracy in the country, improve food security, contain terrorism and extremism, extending assistance to developing the economy.
The US and Israel further resolved to normalize relations between Sudan and Israel and end the state of belligerence between them. The US President, Prime Minister of Israel decided to open economic and trade relations, giving initial attention to agriculture.  A meeting of delegations of the three countries will be arranged in the coming weeks to negotiate terms of cooperation in those areas, including agriculture, technology, aviation, migration, beside other areas of common interest between Sudan and Israel.
Trump, Netanyahu, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and Abdalla Hamdok agreed to collaborate for sustainable peace and better future towards lasting peace in the region and  improved regional security; then,  unlock new opportunities for the people of Sudan, Israel, the Middle East, and Africa.
Share this on WhatsApp