Share this on WhatsApp
 


The UK Government and Parliament have responded to the petition the #ENDSARS protesters presented—for punishment of the Nigerian government and some of its officials.
No fewer than 219,702 Nigerians signed the petition following the shooting in Lagos and other part of the countries where protest against police brutality degenerated into mayhem.
The UK said it awaits the outcome of Nigerian investigations into reports of police brutality—to avoid speculating on future sanctions.
In a press release Thursday, the British government referred mostly to tweets and statements its Nigerian commission made while the protest flared across the nation in October.
“The Foreign Secretary issued a statement on October 21 calling for an end to the violence and the Nigerian government to urgently investigate reports of brutality by its security forces and hold those responsible to account,” it said.
“The Minister for Africa tweeted on October 16, noting the Nigerian people’s democratic and peaceful calls for reforms, and again on October 21, encouraging the Nigerian authorities to restore peace and address concerns over brutality towards civilians. He reiterated these messages when he spoke to Foreign Minister Onyeama on October 23.
“The British High Commissioner in Abuja has also raised the protests with representatives of the Nigerian government and will continue to do so. We welcome President Buhari’s decision to disband the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and the establishment of judicial panels of inquiry to investigate alleged incidents of brutality by the security services.
“They must investigate all incidents, including in Lagos, thoroughly. The Minister for Africa tweeted on October 29 stressing the importance of the police and military cooperation with the panels. He raised this, and the need for the panels to urgently start investigations, when he spoke to the Governor of Lagos on November 11.
“The UK Government will continue to work with the Nigerian government and international and civil society partners to support justice, accountability and a more responsive policing model in Nigeria.
“We will continue to push for the Nigerian security services to uphold human rights and the rule of law, investigate all incidents of brutality, illegal detentions and use of excessive force, and hold those responsible to account.”
Share this on WhatsApp