Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The clamour for the Southeast to provide the next president for Nigeria comes 2023 can only be achieved if the region engages in conversation with the people of Northern Nigeria, says former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu.
He made the recommendation in Abuja on Wednesday during the presentation of a book titled ‘Pitch: Debunking Marketing’s Strongest Myths,’ authored by Ikem Okuhu, noting that the South East geopolitical zone must hold negotiations with northern Nigeria in order to brighten its chance of producing an Igbo president come 2023.
“There is clamour for Igbo presidency today. And I believe it can only be realised if we engage ourselves in conversation with northern Nigeria to buy into our initiative,” Ekweremadu said.
He also lambasted the Nigerian government’s attitude to the present economic crisis, escalating incidence of banditry and abduction, noting its disregard for several solutions recommended by patriots.
“Today, Nigeria is in the full grip of widespread insecurity- insurgency, banditry, abductions, armed robbery, and all manner of violent crimes. Nigerians have been offering solutions towards taming the rising wave of criminality.
Ekweremadu related the advancement level of the western world, which had proposed a paradigm shift by from use of fossil fuels as an energy source, to that of Nigeria, which was still far from exploring other ample sources of revenue aside crude oil because the country’s own brand of federalism was conceived for wealth sharing, not wealth creation.
“Even in the 7th National Assembly when we listened to the yearnings of Nigerians to amend the constitution to devolve aviation, power, railway, etc. from the Exclusive List to the Concurrent List, it was never assented by the Presidency.
“Now that the chicken has come home to roost, let us hope that the Federal Government will listen to the voices of reason, devolve powers, and not continue with the micromanagement of the nation’s resources,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp