Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has initiated a rebuilding process at Old Trafford with some remarkable transfers since his inception as Manchester United manager.
It is believed that the Red Devils are still expected to continue with their restructuring at the next summer transfer market with some notable stars rumoured to be of interest to United.
In line with the above, Red Devils legend Dimitar Berbatov has warned Solskjaer over signing new midfielders.
However, the former Bulgaria captain making his personal assessment of players of interest to United, reckons that Jack Grealish is better suited for the Old Trafford club than Saul Niuez.
Berbatov believes that United can already boast of a healthy midfield options
It is reported that the Red Devils boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is keen to bolster his midfield ranks once the 2019/20 season, which is due to restart next week, finally reaches its conclusion.
Sequel to Solkjaer’s ambition, some players have been linked with a move to Old Trafford and notable among them are Aston Villa captain Grealish, Atletico Madrid maestro Saul and Leicester City playmaker James Maddison.
Meanwhile, United’s former striker Berbatov believed that the Red Devils already boast of reliable players at the midfield and hence surprised that Solskjaer is still looking for new midfielders, especially with Paul Pogba set to return after a long injury lay-off and Bruno Fernandes impressing.
Berbatov told BetFair: “Manchester United have been linked with Saul Niguez from Atletico Madrid again.
“For me looking at the situation, Pogba is back, Fernandes is there, they have McTominay who needs to play regularly because he’s young and is doing so well, Mata is there, Matic is there who is great at what he does and to put one more in the mix is only okay if you are going to use them and have them playing regularly because that transfer will probably cost a lot of money.
“In my opinion, I think they have enough quality in the team anyway, especially with Pogba coming back, but maybe Solskjaer has a different decision and he has decided that they need someone to strengthen there.
“There have also been reports about United being interested in Jack Grealish, last week Sancho was their top target, this week it’s Grealish, next week it will be somebody else.
“There are so many players associated with a move to United at the moment, it is a good thing I suppose and for the players it boost their reputation.
“I can see Grealish being a better fit at United than someone else, he is used to the Premier League and he is producing great goals and assists.
“But, he is similar to Fernandes, Pogba and Mata in a way and you don’t want too much similarity in your team.”
Berbatov also says he’s intrigued to see where Solskjaer will add to his squad, with United intent on challenging for top honours after a tough time on the pitch since Alex Ferguson left in 2013.
He added: “With all these names mentioned it is going to be interesting to see if they actually sign any of them or maybe nobody will go because for me they have enough midfield players.
“Once they have finished this season, and players are out of contract or leave, then they may need someone.
“But if all of them stay, and they buy two more, then they will have to let a couple go, or if players aren’t happy then they need to go to the manager and tell them they aren’t happy with all other players in the same position.”