The leadership crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has been attributed to the anger of God due to the party’s arrogance and also for treating Nigerians with contempt.
The immediate past Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose disclosed this on Thursday in a statement by his media aide, Lere Olayinka.
“This is just the beginning, their matters will be made worse with time”, the former Governor said, adding that for Nigeria to return to the path of progress “more confusion will still hit the party till it goes into oblivion.”
“This is just the beginning, their matters will be made worse with time”, the former Governor said, adding that for Nigeria to return to the path of progress “more confusion will still hit the party till it goes into oblivion.”
Fayose warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be mindful of being seen as helping the party to uphold its illegalities.
He also lamented the killings by bandits in the North especially Katsina, Kaduna, Zamfara and Sokoto States.
“God will never be happy with a party that its government is doing nothing to stop the bloodshed, raping of women; including children and destruction of people’s sources of livelihood going on in the country.
 
 
“It is on record that more than 300 Nigerians have been brutally murdered by bandits in the last three weeks and the APC government has done nothing”, he said.
The former Governor, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and fierce critic of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, said rather, Nigerians who raised concern are being insulted by the APC government while those who protested are being arrested and detained, as in the case of Nastura Sharif.
He said further: “God can also not be happy with a party like APC, that its government has not only impoverished Nigerians, but with its inept presidency, plunged the country into debt that future generations will have to pay.
“Most importantly, will God be happy with APC after seeing how elections were rigged since 2015, the latest being in Kogi and Bayelsa States?”