The surge of rape incidence is getting out of hand in Nigeria that traditional bonds are rapidly being broken and incest is now in vogue. A father 61 years, has found himself in police net for raping his daughter 19 years, over a period of time and impregnating her in the process. The father is now father of the daughter’s child, and consequently husband of his daughter. Irony of an abominable society.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Lagos State Command, DSP Bala Elkana, in a statement indicated that the 61 years old incestuous father, Eke Kanu, was arrested for raping and impregnating his teenage daughter in Ikorodu, Lagos State.
The PPRO disclosed that the Ikorodu Police Station received a complaint from a member of FIDA that Eke Kanu of Ebute Road, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, subjected his daughter,19 years old, to unlawful sexual intercourse without her consent.
The victim was said to have narrated that   her father has been having sexual intercourse with her when she was much younger, and often threaten to deal with her if she revealed it to anyone.
Father on discovering that her daughter was pregnant for him, took her to a chemist bought some drugs and injection which were given to her for abortion of the pregnancy.
The Police further disclosed another incident at Bariga Police Station where a 33 years old man, Chibuike Kalu,  of Amodu Street, Bariga, defiled his 14 years old daughter.
Another woman was said to have also reported the defilement of 12 years old twins by her salesman, Chinedu Obi, at Aguda Police Station.
She narrated that Chinedu defiled the two girls when she left them with him in her house.
The suspect admitted that he has been having sex with the girls since 2019.
The girls have been taken to Mirabel Center for medical attention and forensic examination. The police said the suspects will be charged after investigations.
The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu. has reassured the commitment of the Command to continually apprehend and prosecute sexual offenders in the state.