Global Day of Prayer Banner
        
 



To broadcast Live on over 800 Satellite, Terrestrial, TV, Radio Stations and Internet Streaming platforms

All is now set for the much-expected Global Day of Prayer with Reverend (Dr.) Chris Oyakhilome, President, Loveworld Incorporated (aka Christ Embassy) which holds tomorrow Friday June 26 into Saturday June 27, 2020, with about five billion people expected to be in attendance across the nations and territories of the world.
The Global Day of Prayer which is the second edition being organized by the Man of God, serves as a rallying point of intercessory prayers by Christians across the globe and is watched by several non-Christians alike. This edition brings a new wave of glory with round the clock intercessory prayers from 6pm GMT+1 (1pm EST) on Friday, June 26, through Saturday, June 27, 2020. The highly anticipated program will be broadcast LIVE on all LoveWorld Networks, over 800 terrestrial TV stations, radio stations and internet platforms.
ALSO READ COVID-19: Pastors Chris, Benny Hinn host world largest prayer event
Speaking concerning the program during the June 2020 Global Communion Service, Pastor Chris (as he is fondly called) urged every Christian to avail themselves and their loved ones of the opportunity to be part of this special prayer experience. “It will be a time to apply the knowledge of God’s Word you received over the past weeks of ‘Your LoveWorld’ broadcast to effect changes in your world,” he told the global audience.
The first edition of the Global Day of Prayer, which held on March 27, 2020, recorded a global participation of over 3.5 billion people from every nation of the world, while this Second Edition targets about 5 billion people participating. Tremendous testimonies on the impact of the program have always been recorded.
Now, expectations are high as the third edition of the Global Day of Prayer with Pastor Chris holds tomorrow. Definitely, greater participation and impact will be witnessed in this special day-long prayer event.
ALSO READ: Over 3 billion join Pastor Chris and Benny Hinn to pray against covid 19 global challenge
Information circulated by the Director of Programmes and Corporate Affairs of the Ministry, Pastor Ifeoma Chiemeka, encouraged as many who are interested in the event to “visit www.pastorchrisonline.org to register now to participate and invite everyone in your sphere of contact to do the same.”
Over the years, June has been a special month of prayer for the LoveWorld nation as the Man of God was instructed by God’s Spirit. At this year’s June Global Communion Service which was held on Sunday June 7, 2020, the man of God reiterated the uniqueness of the month of June as a special month of prayer. It is very special this year as the Pastor Chris Global Prayer Network which kicked off in June 2010, celebrates a decade of fervent prayers by millions of prayer partners from all around the world.
Selected websites for Live Streaming
Already ongoing in this Year of Perfection, as Pastor Chris announced it to be, is the year-long, non-stop global prayer chain with Pastor Chris.
Exhorting on June, being the Month of Prayer, Pastor Chris remarked — “this month we’ll do extra praying in addition to the ongoing pray-a-thon.” He explained that along with the already existing fifteen-minute allotted prayer time, different groups will pray for one full hour at least twice in course of the month. He also encouraged individuals to organize groups of ten to twenty people who will join them to pray at personally chosen prayer times. The year-long pray-a-thon with Pastor Chris, which commenced January 6th, 2020, will continue till January 6th, 2021.
The pray-a-thon is a 24-hour daily prayer programme that commenced since the beginning of the year 2020 and is expected to run through the whole the year. During this prayer programme individuals and groups take out a fifteen minutes slot each to pray. In the 173 days of 2020 so far, members of the Loveworld Nation and partner Ministries have been praying without ceasing for over 4000 hours which is 240,000 minutes. And participation has been from over 300 nations and territories.
The impact of this glorious exercise in the lives of all participants and on our world will doubtlessly be unprecedented. Now in it’s 171st  day, the prayer-a-thon has already recorded remarkable testimonies of tremendous impact all around the world.
Sign up today to be a partner with the Pastor Chris Global Prayer Network and ensure you participate in the Pastor Chris Live year-long Pray-A-Thon by following the Pastor Chris Live SuperUser on KingsChat at https://web.kingsch.at/superusers/pastorchrislive to receive daily prayer posts sent out by the man of God. You can also join any group praying by watching the live stream on the Pastor Chris Live SuperUser story on KingsChat or visit www.pastorchrisonline.org.