commends Buhari, Obasa, others


The Lagos State House of Assembly has commended President Mohammadu Buhari and the Speaker Rt.Hon Mudashiru Obasa,over the eventual presidential approval of fiscal autonomy to the state Legislature and  Judiciary,describing it as a paradigm shift to how things are done in Nigeria.

This was sequel to a motion championed by the Deputy Majority Leader,Hon.Noheem Adams and other ten lawmakers,noting that it would further strengthen the doctrine of separation of powers and help to build a vibrant nation as it obtains in US.


It will be recalled that Buhari recently signed an executive order granting financial autonomy to state legislatures and the judiciary months after Speaker Obasa led a team of his colleagues on a visit to the President at the Aso Rock Villa, where they made the demand.

The Executive Order 10 signed by Buhari makes it compulsory for the 36 states of the federation to always include the allocations of the legislature and the judiciary in the first-line charge of their budgets.

In his contributions, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu representing Eti-Osa Constituency 02, who commended the Speaker, said, “you did not mind that your State had gotten the autonomy and you ensured that this was extended to other States. Your labour has not gone in vain and through you I congratulate other States Houses of Assembly.”,

Hon. Bisi Yusuff in his contribution noted that it was a noble achievement on the part of the state legislature in Nigeria.

“Legislatures should wake up now and active representatives of the people,as Lagos paved way for this financial autonomy now granted.

According to Hon.Tunde Braimoh, who said he was taken aback by some people faulting the autonomy notes that the tenet of governance hinges on separation of powers and that this only equips those arms to function maximally.

” This only equips those given the work to function, it is a paradigm shift to how things are done in Nigeria.

Hon. Victor Akande (Ojo Constituency 1), while contributing, said that history will never forget Speaker Obasa for the laudable achievement of financial autonomy. “We thank you for making it happen and we thank President Buhari who signed it. This will help both the legislature and the executive to enshrine democracy in the right way,” he said.

Other lawmakers, who spoke glowingly about the development,showered encomium on both President Buhari and Obasa, saying that the Executive Order 10 is a great thing in the history of democracy in Nigeria.

Responding, Speaker Mudashiru Obasa, who doubles as the  Chairman of Conference of Speakers thanked the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami for his roles that eventually resulted in the signing of the order by President Buhari just as he commended his colleagues in the various Houses of Assembly for their steadfastness at all times.


“This is a success for all and other houses of legislature in Nigeria,it was achieved through the collaborative efforts of all,the feat will outlive us, in other climes they go the parliament because the power resides there, and it remains where the rights of the people will be better protected.

“State Governor’s should not see it as a means to whittle their powers, but rather to ensure consultation between all the arms of Government.


The Speaker therefore directed the Clerk of the House, Mr Azeez Sanni to send letters of commendation to President Buhari and others on the matter.