A notable political actor in the polity, Femi Fani-Kayode, has taken a mockery swipe on the National leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Biola Tinubu, giving a progressive rendition of how he has been thrown off the APC convoy by President Muhammadu Buhari, co-founder of the APC and leader of the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) legacy party.
Fani-Kayode in a seeming de-juxtaposition of the structural power sharing in the APC which allocated the president to the Buhari’s CPC and the national chairman to Tinubu’s Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) legacy party, ridiculed the current circumstance in APC that in which the national chairman appears to be slipping off the ACN controlled Tinubu, the major stronghold of the national leader in the ruling party.
Fani-Kayode appeared irritated by the support President Muhammadu Buhari gave to Victor Giadom, recognizing him as APC acting national chairman after the ousting of Adams Oshiomhole by the Court of Appeal.
Femi Fani-Kayode in a social media broadcast on his facebook page declared: “First, Oshiomhole is kicked out by the Court of Appeal. Then, his preferred replacement, Ajimobi, falls into a coma; then, his archrival, Giadom, is recognized by Buhari as acting National chairman.
“Concussion: it is over for Tinubu. He has been thrown under the bus and retired from politics!”
President Muhammadu Buhari in the storm of the leadership crisis in APC declared support Victor Giadom as APC acting national chairman. President Buhari further declared his readiness to attend the National Executive Council (NEC) of the APC convened by Giadom to resolve the crisis rocking the party, which was challenged by APC National Working Committee (NWC).
The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement on Wednesday, indicated that President Buhari has received very convincing advice on the position of the law as far as the situation in the party is concerned. He added that the President has determined that the law is on the side of Giadom as acting national chairman.
President Buhari expressed the optimism that APC governors and National Assembly leaders will participate in the NEC virtual meeting Thursday.
Time will prove Fani-Kayode right or wrong. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court is the only window left for Oshiomhole to regain his APC membership or leadership. Though, there have been latent political simulations to reverse the suspension of Oshiomhole by the Ward 10 of APC in Etsako LGA, Edo State; the process was flawed by boycotting the authentic APC leaders.