In less than 24 hours, the ruling APC has produced three acting national chairman following the suspension of the former occupant of the office, Adams Oshiomhole.
The third acting chairman was appointed by 15 members of the party’s NWC –from the south-south.
Hilliard Eta, APC’s national vice-chairman south-south, at a press conference at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja, explained that his appointment was in tandem with the constitution of the party.
According to him, Senator Abiola Ajimobi earlier announced to have taken the place of  Oshiomhole, is unavoidably absent for now to steer the affairs of the party.
Victor Giadom, a former member of the NWC, also from (south-south) has declared himself acting chairman based on a March court order.
But Eta declared that the seat of the deputy national secretary of the party which Victor Giadom formerly occupied is vacant on the basis that he had since resigned his membership of the NWC prior to the 2019 general elections to contest elections in Rivers state.
Eta then asked the chieftains of the party from the south-south geopolitical zone to nominate someone else to replace Giadom in the NWC.
“Giadom must be in a fantasy land to create this kind of scenario,’ said Eta.
“If he was still a very young man, I would have advised him to enrol into the military where he could go-ahead to do a coup and become a sole administrator. But we are in a democracy and in a progressive party like the APC where the rule of law is held in high esteem.”
On the disqualification of Edo Gov Godwin Obaseki which Giadom dismissed inhis earlier press conference at party’s national secretariat in Abuja, Eta maintained that the disqualification stands.
He said it has been sealed and ratified by the NWC of the party.
Eta then appointed a seven-member panel headed by Imo Gov. Governor Hope Uzordinma  with Senator Abimbola Bashir as secretary of the Edo State governorship primaries billed to hold on the 22nd of this month.
Among the 15 NWC members in attendance was the national publicity secretary of the party, Lanre Issa-Onilu, the national treasurer, Adamu Fanda, the National women leader, Hajia Salamatu Baiwa, and national organising secretary, Emmanuel Ibediro.
Eta, Uzordinma,Bashir are all loyalists of Oshiomhole’s in the NWC.