The Governor made the boast Friday morning, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has described his emergence as the Peoples’ Democratic Party party’s standard-bearer in the September 19 governorship election in the state as triumph over retrogressive forces that have determined to hijack the state for their own selfish endeavour.
He disclosed this on Friday morning while making his acceptance remarks at the mainbowl of Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin.
“Today marks a defining moment in the political history of our State and indeed our country. Our story is one of courage in the face of protracted crisis and ultimately, a triumph over retrogressive forces that have determined to hijack our state for their own selfish endeavour.
The Governor, who disclosed that there were moments during the struggle when he was tempted to quit, thanked the leadership of the PDP for providing him shelter under the umbrella when he was swept into the rain by the APC.
“Let me use this opportunity to thank the chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwwal, Governor of Sokoto state, and our other colleagues, particularly Governor Nysom Wike of Rivers State, Governor Umahi of Ebonyi state, my brother, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta state, and all the Excellences and many more who are not here.
“We are eternally grateful to PDP governors, leaders of our great party particularly the national chairman, Uche Secondus, and all other members of the National Working Committee who have provided us that shelter under that large umbrella in a storm when we were pushed out.
“With your continue support, we will make Edo greater than we met it. As children of God, we will be magnanimous in victory but we will not forget that when the rains were beating us PDP provided us with the umbrella,” he said.
“I want to commend my co-aspirants. But for their sacrifices, this victory won’t have been possible. If Ken Imasuagbon have not decided to uphold the greater good, to uphold the greater ideas for greater Edo state, I will not be here sounding the way I am.”
Earlier, the primary election committee chairman and Governor of Bauchi State, Engr. Bala Mohammed, announced that out of the 2,234 delegates of the party, 2,202 were accredited for the election, but 2,024 voted.
Of these figures, Obaseki scored a total of 1,952 votes, representing 96.4 of total votes cast, while 72 votes were voided.
Mohammed further explained that since the other aspirants stepped down for Obaseki, any votes cast for them is deemed voided.