President Muhammadu Buhari just had an epiphany, shortly after refusing to see Ekiti Gov. Kayode Fayemi and self-styled APC Ag. National Chairman Victor Giadom who came to Aso Rock to meet him on Wednesday.
According to his media aide Garba Shehu, Buhari now recognizes Giadom as the APC national chairman—to the dismay of the party’s NWC  that weeded out the former depuy secretary, and replaced him with a new one yesterday.
“The President has received very convincing advice on the position of the law as far as the situation in the party is concerned and has determined that the law is on the side of Victor Giadom as Acting National Chairman,” Shehu said Wednesday evening.
Now, Buhari isn’t just dismissing the NWC as lawless, he’s rubbing it in their nose, too.
“Because he will always act in accordance with the law, the President will be attending the virtual meeting Giadom called for tomorrow afternoon, the media aide added.
He then urged the media to stop promoting manufactured controversies and to not give any further room for mischievous interpretations of the law on this matter.
In the so-called mischievous media report of the storms of controversies raging in the APC at both the federal and state level, the one-man committee that Giadom himself heads has been declared illegal by the NWC whose acting chairman appointee is Abiola Ajimobi, the southwest national vice chairman who is being represented currently by Hillard Eta, another national vice chairman from the south-south.
This band of committee members are loyal to the suspended chairman Adams Oshiomhole whose battle with the PDP star aspirant and Edo Gov. Godwin Obaseki has fouled up a lot of things in the APC.
It cost the APC a lot of political calamities—the ousting and humiliation of Obaseki, the suspension of Giadom, his replacement, the re-instatement of Oshiomhole in his Etsako ward in Edo, all a  national disgrace—before it dawned on Buhari whom the legit occupant of the national chairman office is.
The Buhari tacit declaration for Giadom is, however, a victory for Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi, who many believe is the real McCoy. (He has denied it.) And the loss is none other’s than the party’s national leader Bola Tinubu’s, the alleged puppeteer pulling the Oshiomhole NWC string.
And the bone of contention: 2023.