By Odimmegwa Johnpeter, Abuja 
Boko-Haram terrorists (BHTs) and those of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) have surrender to the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole across the North East, the Defence Headquarters has said.
The Military High Command also said over 19 of the terrorists were killed by the troops in a deliberate ambush operation against the enemies at Lawanti River line, while others escaped with gunshot wounds. 
Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters, Major General John Enenche, in a statement on Friday in Abuja, said the operation was carried out by troops of Army Super Camp 6 Konduga, Borno State in conjunction with Borno State Civilian Joint Task Force on Wednesday.
Enenche said the laying down of arms by the terrorists was due to the sustained artillery bombardments and ground assaults against their hideouts by the gallant troops. 
He gave the name of the terrorists who surrendered to troops of Delta Company at strong Response in Gwoza local government areas as Mohammed Babagana, Modu Jugudun and Alhaji Usman.
According to him, the trio confessed to have escaped from their camp in Dabulari village, Bama local government area of Borno State after a heavy Artillery bombardments of the camp by troops, which led to the death of many of their erstwhile colleagues. 
He said during interrogation, they confessed regretting their actions and called on their former colleagues to give up the struggle and save themselves from unprofitable death.
He said  on June 2, the combined troops of 19 Brigade and 401 Special Forces Brigade conducted a robust clearance operation at Doron Naira and Magaji.
He added that the troops recovered one 120mm Mortar base plate, one religious book, metal links for-Aircraft ammunition and a roll of copper wire abandoned by the Boko Haram criminals before the arrival of the own troops.
” Also, at Daban Magaji, troops had an encounter with some Boko Haram Terrorists hibernating in the area. 
” The valiant troops, through superior fire neutralized 9 of them. 
 “Additionally, the troops destroyed one Boko Haram Gun Truck as well as captured one Anti-Aircraft Gun, 2 AK 47 Rifles, and a large cache of Anti-Aircraft ammunition. However, one officer paid the supreme price while one soldier was wounded in action,” he said.

The Coordinator said soldiers wounded in action were receiving treatment at the military medical facility.
He further disclosed that on June 1, 2020, troops of 144 Battalion deployed in Madagali, Adamawa State briskly cleared BHT Staging Area and Crossing Points at Lemu, Gajinji and Tsakiraku. 
He said during the encounter at Gajinji, troops neutralized one terrorist and arrested 2 adult females namely: Aishatu Manye and Kelune Mate identified to be the local BHT commander’s wives.
 “In the North West Region, on 3 June 2020, troops of Operation WHIRL PUNCH acting on credible information raided a bandits’ Camp at Kurmin Dande in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State.
“During the operation, troops made contact and neutralized 2 of the bandits while others escaped with gunshot wounds,” he stressed.
Enenche said items seized by the troops include ;2 Dane guns, 2 motorcycles, one locally fabricated short gun, 4 cutlasses, 3 cell phones, 2 small solar panels and some clothing items before destroying their camp.
“Consequently, the Chief of Army Staff, congratulates the gallant troops for their resilience, courage and dedication to the noble cause of defending our fatherland. The High Command of the Armed Forces of Nigeria also encourages the troops to continue to be steadfast and focused as they sustain the onslaught against the enemies of the Nation” he said.