gives free trainings to young entreprenuers

A Non Govermental Organisation, Business and Vocational Skills Academy (BVST), concerned about the grave impact the COVID-19 pandemic poses on the economic wellbeing of Nigerians, has rolled out free online and offline business vocational trainings to help grow budding entrepreneurs.

The BVST Academy President,Comrade Babatunde Ifenuga made this disclosure while speaking with newsmen in Lagos recently.

Ifenuga notes that the initiative was prompted by the official report from the presidency, indicating that figure of job losses will likely rise to 34.9 million this year,with clear prevalence of poverty in various homes.

He added that it is a palliative scheme of BVST Academy  basically meant to help the entrepreneurs with technical-know-how, to grow multiple streams of income.


Comrade Ifenuga said:”The Academy runs online and offline programs, providing free business and vocational training and also encourages acquisition of more than one skill and source of income.

“Some of the free programs offered by the Academy include Graphic Design, Phonetography, Cinematography, Sign Language, Public Speaking and Online Marketing.”



Mr. Favour Dakoru, Executive Director, Dakoru Voice International and Co-Founder, BVST Academy, was quick to state the other scope of coverage of the scheme.

Dakuro said:“The Academy also offers courses in Project Management, The Entrepreneur, Book Keeping, Essentials for Start-Ups and Access to Capital.

“More than 400 entrepreneurs have been trained and assisted with management support.

“These courses are available online and certificate issued upon completion. The Academy is made up of team of top-notch and highly dedicated facilitators.”

Dakoru Voice International (DVI) and Lead-P (Leadership Development and People Initiative) are promoters of BVST Academy with support from other partners.

They have freely trained over 1,235 in the last few years and are focused on equipping young entrepreneurs with relevant skills needed to succeed.

 Other free programs include EmployeeMe Academy, an employability skill training program that equips young graduates and new employees with latest industry skills relevant for excellence.

The NGOs also provide free human resources and management support services.

The two NGOs with headquarters in Apapa, Nigeira have embarked on Mission 1,000 Entrepreneurs (M1000E) which is aimed at raising 1,000 successful entrepreneurs.

New entrepreneurs are being given free business and management supports. Many entrepreneurs in the informal sectors are being guided to access opportunities in the financial and formal sector.

The NGOs other projects include Career Board and Counseling for secondary schools, which help them to make wise career choice and protect them from vices such as cultism and Student-Entrepreneurs, a project that encourage students to have an entrepreneurial mindset as they pursue their careers.

Private and Public Schools in medium and low income communities in Apapa and Ajegunle have benefited from these projects.

BVST Academy is set to graduate another batch of trainees, made up of new and existing business owners from her online academy.

Interested organizations are invited to partner to help new businesses to stabilize and grow, especially in a time like this, while young businesses are encouraged to tap into these opportunities to be freely supported and coached for one year.

Lead-P and DVI are providing free support for new and existing businesses.