By Odimmegwa Johnpeter/ Abuja, 
 In furtherance of the efforts by the Armed Forces of Nigeria to change the tide of its various operations across the country, the Chief of Defense Staff General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin held a meeting with Service Chiefs, the Inspector General of Police, and Heads of other Security and Intelligence agencies on Monday 22 June 2020. This was stated during the weekly general update on armed forces of Nigeria operations by Major General John Enenche, Coordinator Defense Media Operations. 
According to General Enenche, the meeting was one of the series of meetings to re-strategize and enhance existing synergy among all security agencies to address the lingering security challenges bedeviling the nation. He further stated that the meeting focused on developing and mapping out new strategies to address the untoward security situation particularly in the North West, North East and North Central parts of the country. In the same vein, according to him, the Chief of Army Staff, equally held a meeting with Principal Staff Officers, General Officers Commanding and other Field Commanders in this regard where the COAS charged all to ensure that the tide of the operations change.   
The Coordinator Media Defense Operations reiterated the determination of the Armed Forces of Nigeria in concert with other security agencies to stamp out all forms of criminality across the country in accordance with the directives of the C-in-C. Accordingly he noted, troops deployed for various operations across the nation will remain committed and resolute in achieving the operational mandate which is to decisively curtail the activities of criminals in any part of the Nation. 
He also stated that the Military High Command empathizes with all those who have been affected by the activities of terrorists, armed bandits and other criminals in one way or another. Enenche equally expressed the appreciation of the armed forces to Nigerians for their patience and cooperation in giving it timely and credible information on the activities of criminals in their localities. This he noted has greatly assisted the armed forces in its operations so far. He appealed to the general public to be encouraged not to relent, but to continue providing the military and other security agencies with timely and accurate information on the activities of terrorists, bandits and other criminals to aid our operations.