rallies party leaders support

The Council Chairman of Ojokoro,Mr Hammeed Tijani has denied given any contract to the embattled Deputy Leader of the council Mr Maruf Dauda,following the suspension of the latter on the premise of being a mole of the executive amidst his colleagues.

In his response to the call put through to him,H I D as he is fondly called denies having any knowledge of the said development.

He said:”I don’t know anything about it.

Maruf Dauda in his hurried response to National  Daily  correspondent’s call,claiming he was driving,stated unequivocally that he is not collecting any contract from the council.

“I am not collecting any contract from the council as they claimed,though I was suspended for that reason.

“I am busy trying to find all necessary documents to back my claims before another sitting will be fixed,” Said Maruf .

However,the embattled Maruf was seen that Thursday night at the residence of the defunt Ifelodun group leader, Alh. Adelaja Muhammed in a likely attempt to ride on the shoulders of the giants in Ojokoro polity to  weather the storm.

The former special adviser on Civic Engagement to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, Mr. Benjamin Olabinjo who was contacted via phone as one of the political stakeholders in the area, said he was outside Lagos and not well informed about the development at the council.

“I am not well informed about the matter,as I am just trying to put calls through to some people to know better,I am outside Lagos now”. Said Olabinjo.

It was however, alleged that when Mr Olabinjo got the wind of the suspension of Maruf he threatened the other councillors for the disciplinary action carried out to uphold the house rule.

In a voice record made available to newsmen,Olabinjo was heard using vulgar language to disparage the councillors and their legislative chamber.

Meanwhile, the executive was said to be planning a press conference for the embattled councillor, so as to clear the air on his relationship with the executive, the said conference is scheduled for Monday 10am at the chairman conference room,in Ojokoro LCDA.