Certain Churches in the United States (US) have undermined the effects of the shutdown following the coronavirus pandemic to proceed with mobilization of 25 million votes for November 3 presidential election and other elections in US. Three evangelical pastors were linked to the mobilization of the 25 million Christian voters who did not participate in the past presidential election. The three pastors were identified to include Rev. Johnnie Moore, the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez and pastor Jentezen Franklin. They have launched a mobilization scheme: “Our Church Votes,” to create awareness for turnout of Christian voters for the November 3 presidential election including the other 100,000 state and local government elections.
One of the organizers, who President Donald Trump appointed last Thursday into the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, Moore, stated that “The strength of the effort is its simplicity.”
Organistra of the new campaign provides ready-to-use online facilities to assist rural pastors and their congregations mobilize “people in the pews,” encourage them to be registered to vote, and be present at polls for voting. Their theme are “election prayer guides,” how-to plan for a “Voter Registration Sunday,” technology primers and promotional suggestions.
Rodriguez, Pastor of New Season Church in Sacramento, California had said: “We simply want to make it easier for churches to do what they know they should: tell their congregations to vote.”
Rodriguez is president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference — a network of about 40,000 Hispanic churches in the U.S. and Latin America.
Franklin, pastor of Free Chapel, a church with eight locations in Georgia, also noted: “Christians and pastors cannot stand on the sidelines. One’s vote is the first line to protect righteousness and justice in our society.”
He added: “Some Christians think that their votes don’t really make a difference. They are wrong. If the faith community participated in full force, it would easily decide any election.”