The attempt to build a formidable team to challenge for major domestic and European titles has remained the quest of top English Premier League sides.
Arsenal are not left out on this pursuit with some top players targeted by the north London club.
Atletico Madrid prolific midfielder Thomas Partey has remained a major target by Arsenal as they desire to bolster their midfield.
Interestingly for the Emirates club, National Daily gathered that the Ghanaian international has been told that now is the time for him to challenge himself in the Premier League.
Partey, who has also been linked with Manchester United and Liverpool, has impressed for Atletico Madrid this season and is expected to be in demand this summer with Arsenal notable as his transfer destination.
Mikel Arteta has remained keen on bringing Thomas Partey to the Emirates next summer
The 26-year old defensive midfielder who is contracted to Atletico Madrid until 2023 but is believed to have a €50million (£44m) release clause in his contract has been  told by his Ghana teammate Joseph Attamah Larweh that it’s time to test himself in another league – preferably at Arsenal.
“I will be happy if he goes to Arsenal,” said Larweh on Citi TV, in quotes reported by Mundo Deportivo.
“He has done everything at Atletico and is recognized as one of his best players.
“He also has to go to a different league to prove himself.
“He needs people to know that he is capable of succeeding in other places and not only in Spain.”
National Daily further learnt that another Ghanaian teammate of Partey Kasim Nuhu, has recently urged him to jump at the chance of a move to the Premier League if any EPL top club triggers his buyout clause.
“Atletico Madrid is a very good club so he is playing at one of the biggest clubs in the world and Arsenal are also one of the biggest,” Nuhu told TV3 on Instagram last month.
“For me, it is his decision because playing for Atletico Madrid is the same as playing for Arsenal.
“The two teams always make the same category in the league, fighting for the third and fourth place to play in Champions League.
“But as we all know the Premier League is the best league in the world so if he joins Arsenal I will be happy for him.”