LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 25:  Chelsea fans enjoy the atmosphere duing the Chelsea FC Premier League Victory Parade on May 25, 2015 in London, England.  (Photo by Ben Hoskins/Getty Images)
        
 








Reports just reaching National Daily reveal that Chelsea are willing to meet the stunning 53million release clause of RB Leipzig’s striker Timo Werner.

It was further gathered by National Daily that the German sensation has agreed to join Chelsea in principle in on a deal that worth 180,000 as weekly wages.
Remarkably, the north London club has capitalized on Liverpool’s reluctance and unwillingness to pay the RB Leipzig striker’s full release clause
Lampard will be relieved to boost his attacking options with Werner’s proficiency
Further revelation explains that Frank Lampard is keen on bringing a No.9 to Stamford Bridge this summer to challenge Tammy Abraham..
The Blues boss made use of a clause in Olivier Giroud’s contract to keep the experienced striker at the club for another season.
However, the France World Cup winner is only expected to be a backup as Lampard aims to boost the quality of his starting squad.

Interestingly for Chelsea’s fans, Werner’s potential move to Stamford Bridge has been hinted by his boss Julian Nagelsmann when he was asked about the future of the Leipzig’s hitman. Nagelsmann admitted that there is not much the club can do to keep him there if he decides to leave.
‘There is nothing we can do about it. He knows what he has in Leipzig and also what he has with me,’ Nagelsmann said.

‘I show him that — he gets many chances to develop himself. I don’t know if it will help him that much if I tell him every day.
A player has to feel that he can get better. If he doesn’t feel that, it wouldn’t do any good if I kept on telling him to stay here.
‘In the end, it is his life, his career, he can decide that. I can’t think of anything new to say to Timo.’
Undoubtedly, Chelsea fans are in high spirit over Werner’s potential move to Stamford Bridge as his arrival will definitely give the Blues the much desirable force in attack as a proven striker.