The Gunners fans have continued to endure some terrible moments as they hope for a transformation of the fortunes of their beloved club.
The North London club who suffered a period of almost nine years without a trophy, which coincided with their relocation to the Emirates Stadium was guided to FA Cup success in 2014, 2015 and 2017 by Arsene Wenger before stepping down as manager.
Arsenal last won a major trophy in 2017 under Arsene Wenger
And since the exit of the Frenchman in 2018, Arsenal have struggled to retain their firepower to challenge for major trophies.
However, the wait for have Arsenal return to contenders could be over as the Emirates club is finally ready to rebuild an ardent team that will return the north club to its glorious days.
Interestingly, National Daily can confirm that Arsenal have completed the permanent signings of Cedric Soares and Pablo Mari while extending David Luiz’s contract and also have succeeded in striking an agreement with Real Madrid to keep loanee Dani Ceballos until the end of the campaign.
Arsenal’s exciting ambition was explained by their technical director Edu: “I am really happy that we will have these players in our squad for the future. They have been part of the long-term technical plan Mikel and I have developed. They bring the right balance to our squad.
“David is a really important player for us. He has played most of our matches this season and has been important for the team. His passing, his communication with the team on and off the pitch. He helps everyone.
“With Pablo we’re all disappointed he got injured at Manchester City. Since Mikel arrived here he was asking for a central defender who was left-footed. We were really pleased with Pablo – his behaviour, the way he is training, his mentality and his quality. Unfortunately, he has that injury but of course we are really happy to keep him for the future.
“Cedric is also going to be an important player. He has been unlucky with the injuries but he is close to being ready and gives us more strength in the right-back position. We’re also pleased Dani will finish the season here. He is making a good contribution and we look forward to him having a strong finish to the season.”
But the question begging for answer for most Arsenal supporters is whether this existing squad is formidable enough with the capability of realizing their quest for glories.