says an irreparable National loss

The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on behalf of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and the PDP family, mourns the death of former Governor of Oyo state and immediate past acting National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abiola Ajimobi.
The PDP through its National Publicity Secretary Mr. Kola Ologbodiyan described his death as a national tragedy and a huge loss not only to the APC and his state, Oyo  but also to the entire nation.
Indeed, our party is still in shock and deeply saddened over the news of the death of Senator Ajimobi, especially at this time, when our nation needed his wealth of experience and statesmanship the most.
Senator Ajimobi was an exceptionally brilliant administrator, outstanding legislator and a man of peace, who made immense contributions and sacrifices towards the unity as well as political stability and development of our dear nation, Nigeria.
Senator Ajimobi was an excellent administrator and broad-minded  Nigerian, who put the good of the nation ahead of other considerations in his political life.
Our party sincerely commiserates with the Ajimobi family, particularly his widow, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi, President Muhammadu Buhari, the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the government and people of Oyo state.
The party prayed God to grant the nation the fortitude to bear the loss and eternal repose to the faithful departed.
The Action Democratic Party (ADP)National Publicity Secretary Prince Adelaja Adeoye, in his own take on the deceased Senator Ajimobi, express deep sadness owing to the loss of a quite cerebral and consummate politician.
The party said, it was saddening to hear of his demise, praying for his soul to rest in the bosom of the Almighty Allah.
ADP condole with his immediate and political family across the country, stated that, from God we all came, and we shall return when he calls.
“We know, this is a trying time for all the Oyo State people, for losing one of their respected son, who have diligently served them at various capacity.
“We therefore commiserate with the Government of Oyo State, led by Engr Seyi Makinde, and President Muhammadu Buhari, the leader of his party, All Progressive Congress (APC)”.
ADP also charged his immediate family members, to keep praying for his soul and that of the country, for peace to reign always.
According to the party, Ajimobi is one of the finest politician in Nigeria. He was well educated and thoroughly brought up as an administrator, who was very adequate in all his assignments.  We pray and ask God Almighty Allah, to forgive all his shortcomings, and grant him Aljana Firdaus.