There could be some tough times for Manchester United No. 1 goalie David de Gea if the report reaching National Daily can be trusted.
It has been reported that United will assess David de Gea over the next 12 months before making a final decision on whether Dean Henderson will become the club’s first-choice goalkeeper.
Sadly, De Gea has continued to struggle for form this season and made yet another error against Tottenham in United’s latest EPL encounter last Friday.
Henderson has enjoyed excellent campaign with Sheffield United and could unseat De Gea at Old Trafford
The Red Devils will welcome Sheffield United to Old Trafford this evening but Henderson will not play for the Blades due to a clause in his loan agreement.
The above means that, only De Gea will be on display at Old Trafford as he looks to redeem himself following his poor display at the New White Hart Lane last week.
National Daily learnt that the Spaniard has reportedly been told he has 12 months to save his career at United or Henderson will take his place and this obviously may not look good for the Spain international who has undoubtedly enjoyed a fantastic career since his arrival at Old Trafford in June, 2011 from Atletico Madrid.
“David is not having the best of times,” a source told ESPN.
“But he’s still capable of winning games with his ability and experience, and people at the club know that.
“While Dean is rated very highly, he’s still only 23 and has less than a full season in the Premier League to his name.
“United can’t risk abandoning De Gea for a kid with loads of potential but not a lot of experience.
“The next year will be crucial for both of them.”
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has opened up on his impression of Henderson and admitted he does see him as the first-choice goalkeeper at United in the future.
“It’s a different job to be playing for Sheffield United and for Manchester United,” Solskjaer said.
“The two years he [Henderson] has had [at Sheffield United] have been fantastic development.
“He’s learning all the time, he’s a passionate keeper, developing with good coaching.
“One day he’ll be England No. 1 and United No. 1 and he needs to keep developing.”
Inadvertently, De Gea may have benefitted from the cancellation of Euro 2020 with his Old Trafford’s position retained as Henderson may still have to wait to fill in England No. 1 spot.
“If he had come back from the Euros as England’s No. 1, it would have given United a problem because nobody can realistically see De Gea or Henderson putting up with being second choice at Old Trafford,” the source added.
“But that problem has now been delayed by 12 months and it gives everybody a chance to do what they need to do.”
Meanwhile, United have been left to handle the situation carefully especially with Chelsea, Bayern Munich, Juventus and Paris Saint-Germain all believed to be circling over Henderson.