Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has finally reacted to the leadership crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole as the National Chairman of the party.
According to the former Governor of Kwara State, Oshiomhole, who was busy proclaiming the end of the political career of some other people is now about to meet his waterloo.
He said he had always known that a day would come when his (Oshiomhole) masquerade would dance naked in the market.
Saraki, also welcomed the defection of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).
“I also thank Obaseki’s colleagues, the PDP Governors, for their role and for ensuring that while bringing him into the party, they carried along the local chapter and refrain from just unilaterally taking decisions without the input of the leaders of the party in Edo State.
“The process our Governors adopted in working with the local chapter to bring in the Governor is a better approach than the system in many of the other parties where the National Working Committee (NWC) would simply just give him a membership card.
“At this point, it will be odd if I fail to comment on the situation that led to the change of party by Governor Obaseki. While I have kept my cool and ignored all the verbal attacks directed at me by the suspended chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, I have always known that a day like this would come when his masquerade will dance naked in the market.
“The truth is always constant and no matter how far falsehood travels, the truth will catch up with it one day. Oshiomhole can fool people for a long time but he cannot fool the people all the time. What is happening to him now is a moment of truth. This same man who was garrulously proclaiming the end of the political career of some other people is now about to meet his Waterloo.
“He has continued to use his mouth to divide his party and I believe there is a lesson for all politicians to learn from the fate of the suspended APC chairman. No autocrat can successfully pretend to be a Democrat. The true character of a man will come out one day.”