The River state government has warned those it described as detractors to desist from causing disaffection in the state as it has fully paid and remunerated all personnel in the State Decontamination Team currently involved in the ongoing fumigation of all public places across the state.
The Sole Administrator, Rivers State Waste Management Agency (RWAMA), Bro Felix Obuah, who disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, said the warning became necessary against the backdrop of clandestine moves by some persons to lure the team with gratifications for their selfish motives.
The RIWAMA boss warned that anybody involved or caught in the act would have themselves to blame as the full weight of the law will be brought to bear on such person(s).
He said the fumigation exercise is one of the measures by the Wike administration to curtail the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic and is targeted at public places like schools, churches, markets, motor parks etc at the expense of the State government.
Bro Obuah said some mischief makers may wish to lure the Decontamination Team with money to create the impression that the members of the public are being taxed for exercise to rubbish the genuine and passionate efforts of the State government to safeguard the lives of Rivers people and those doing business in the State.
He said the team is closely monitored to ensure that all the designated public places are readily captured as well as enable them execute the project without distractions.
“I think what should be expected from the members of the public is an applause for His Excellency, Chief Barr. Nyesom Wike who has vowed to do all that is humanly possible to ensure that our people are minimally affected by the global scourge. His efforts should rather be complemented by making sure all the directives by the State government and the World Health Organisation (WHO) are put to practice. The Governor had earlier warned against playing politics with COVID-19 and that instruction still stands,” Bro Obuah declared.
The RIWAMA boss reiterated that the State government will not take it kindly with any member of the public or the Decontamination Team trying to sabotage the efforts of the State government in containing the COVID-19 pandemic in the State.