Senator Representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Senator Adebayo Oshinowo has been reported dead.
Details of his demise is yet to be ascertained. Lawmakers in the Assembly sat to adjourn sitting as a result of this incident.
Born to late Alhaji Rabiu Osinowo and Alhaja Moriam Osinowo on the 28th of November 1955, Honourable Adebayo Sikiru Osinowo attended Saint Augustine Primary School, Ijebu-Ode before proceeding to Isoyin Grammar School.
He later travelled abroad in search of the golden fleece, as he pursued higher education in Italy,and obtained a Diploma in Building Technology with MSC in Communication from the prestigious Italia Instituto per Geometra Rome.
Between 1977 and 1979, he was a land officer in the Federal Ministry of works, and upon return to Nigeria after his studies abroad, he became Director of MIEL SRL, Italy between in 1985. In 1986, he established Nigeria – Italian Dredging Company (NIMO) where he served as Chairman while also doubling as Managing Director of NITAL International Construction Company from 1990-2003.
Honourable Adebayo Osinowo knew quite early in life that he was cut for politics, as such he ventured into the murky terrains of politics, which many dread and would not touch, not even with a pole.
As at when late Aare Ona Kakanfo MKO Abiola was the Ogun State Chairman of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) during the second republic, Honourable Bayo Osinowo was an NPN youth group Chairman in Ogun state.
During the hey days of the military junta of late General Sanni Abacha, Honourable  Osinowo pitched his tent with the progressives to fight for the realization of the June 12, 1993 mandate of Social Democratic Party (SDP) presidential candidate, Late MKO Abiola. For that, he found himself in the bad books of the Abacha led military government and was incarcerated.
When the fourth republic commenced in 1999, Honourable Bayo Osinowo had attained political and leadership maturity having passed through the shadows of death of military brutality,then  he ended up with the Alliance for Democracy (AD).
In 2003, he contested to represent Kosofe in the Lagos State House of Assembly, and he has been re-elected thrice, making him a fourth term Lagos State legislator. He served as Chairman, Lagos state House of Assembly Committee on Lands and Housing for 11 years.
In recognition of his excellent performance and contributions to his political constituency specifically and Lagos State at large, Honourable Adebayo Osinowo was honoured with Legislator of the year 2011 award, most Supportive Honourable Award 2013 by Lagos State polytechnic Students Union Government, and Award for Excellent performance on Re-election into Lagos State House of Assembly 4th term.
As an African who is quite conscious of the responsibilities that true African tradition require from notable achievers, he has been responsive to society needs. As such, he was he was honoured with Chieftaincy titles, and they include Otunba Mayegun of Imoru, and Otunba Tayese of Ishero-Oke in Lagos.
Honourable Adebayo Osinowo is married to Mrs Mariam Ayodele Oshinowo and the marriage is blessed with three children, namely Dr. Taiwo Bakare, Dr Kehinde Adebisi and Babtunde Osinowo. He is a proud father to two medical doctors.