There are indications of looming shakeup from the State House, Abuja, since the emergence of Professor Ibrahim Gambari as Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. Presidency sources disclosed that the death of former Chief of State, Abba Kyari, and the appointment of Prof. Gambari into the office has been exposing many things in the presidency. National Daily had earlier reported of Tension in the Presidency, heads to roll, and the fear of some principal officers being displaced after the appointment of Prof. Gambari. The new CoS showed strong signs that it will no longer be business as usual in the governance of Nigeria under the supervision of Buhari.
Since the protest letter of the National Security Adviser (NSA), retired Major General Babagana Monguno against the late Chief of Staff to the President, alleging the cutting of deals between the late CoS and the service chiefs, there have been suspicions that the service chiefs were purportedly shielded in the presidency in that relation with the late Kyari despite the deteriorating security situation in the country, including public outcries.
Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari at a meeting with the Service Chiefs at the State House, Abuja, expressed his anger over the uncontrollable insecurity in the country. The President had scolded the service chiefs that excuses would no longer be tolerated, adding that their best is not good enough in the present circumstance in the country.
State officials who attended that meeting at the State House on Thursday were identified to include the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar; the Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok Ekwe Ibas; and the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai.
Also in attendance were the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; the Chief of Defence Intelligence Agency, Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Usman, the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Mr Yusuf Bichi; and the Director-General Nigeria Intelligence Agency Ahmed Abubakar.
The Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Minister of Defence, Retired Major General Bashir Magashi; and the National Security Adviser (NSA), Retired Major General Babagana Monguno, were also in attendance.