It is no more news that a Dubai based suspected notorious Nigerian internet fraudster popularly know as Raymond Igbalodedly aka Hushpuppi was arrested on the 9th of June 2020 in his apartment at Vasace pallazo, one of the most expensive residential places in Dubai.

He lived an extravagant and extremely lavish lifestyle that got everyone murmuring all over social media, with the curiosity to know what he does for a living and how he is able to live so lavishly. Guess What? In this article I will Educate us on how he really made his money and why he will be freed soon by the FBI.

(1). Hushpuppi was never a fraudster but an FX trader who deals mostly with crypto currencies, and also who invested a great deal of time and energy into his trade. People within his close circle of friends know this which is why they are parading themselves as hushpuppi on social media, requesting for Bitcoin and other FX’s from some of his business associates.

(2). Hushpuppi owns 2 real estate companies and is a major car dealer and distributor of highly powerful exotic cars in Nigeria (Company Names Withheld) but refused to reveal them to the public for reasons best known to him, he also has a private life you know!!!

(3) Hushpuppi was a very hard working young Nigerian who never slept while trying to generate new ideas to fetch him good fortune. This same hushpuppi suffered years back in Lagos island as a trader in the well know business center but who knew him then? No one cared who he was. He went through the hardship and became successful because he persevered and remained dedicated to his cause to be successful in life, a dream that finally came to pass while he lived in Malaysia.

(4). He was fund of oppressing many youths on social media right? (NO) This is a wrong impression as hushpuppi’s motive was to inspire, influence and motivate Nigerian youths positively to work hard and dream big.

(5) There are various news spreading all over the media about his arrest but not one single person or agency has seen one single evidence against him including the FBI and the Interpol. Do you think if he was really guilty that the FBI wouldn’t have published him all over the news themselves by now? Think about it deeply.

(6) His only crime that got him hooked on FBI’s radar is an issue of money laundering. Are you aware he recently acquired a villa in Dubai worth $17Million USD and a $500,000 USD Rolls Royce Cullinan which is approximately 180Million Naira.

(7). If he ever gets convicted for whatever reason, the reason will only be for money laundering which means he will be coming back much sooner than expected.