Dear Don Foster,

Rest In Peace.
Covid-19 finally let’s us know that this year is a tragedy. If we thought the deaths didn’t concern us, well now we all have to think again.

Abba Kyari was a distant number. He was in a government and many people took his death as just another news.

Yet. Some people still felt the blow.

But this hits us a diff way. Dan, you are loved. That Covid-19 took you is the worse the virus could possibly do.

You changed the radio game. Many people took the radio job when they discovered the worth.

Dan Foster brought respect to the morning radio show. Because of Dan people like Yaw even tho they were quite diff in their presentation, style and language got the due regards.

We all remember Dan a diff way. But we all do remember that American voice that connected to the Nigerianess in us all.

Cool FM was so cool because it had a man who knew how to impact people’s morning in a way that no one else did.

You made Cool FM a morning Radio Station. We listened to your breakfast show and when you left. We put off our radio.

It was all about how you spoke and made us feel. You didn’t talk like the regular guys. Yet we didn’t notice any form of arrogance in your voice.

We listened and heard your humility in a very fun way.

For many who don’t know, they’d think Nigeria radio stations started placing priorities on their breakfast shows after year 2000.

Because that’s the year you joined Cool FM. You came and immediately made your mark. When you left Cool FM for a new radio station (Inspiration FM) in 2009, Inspiration FM became an instant hit. Because the truth is you were the station. It was your voice and talks that got fans to listen. Same thing happened in 2014 when you left to join City FM.

When you left City FM 105.1 to join Classic FM 97.3 radio station things went bad for City FM. They had to undergo a serious strategic rebranding to survive.

Marrying a Nigerian woman, Lovina, really explained your love for Nigeria. You preached Nigeria, we felt the love in your shows.

Sad times. Time for some of us to resume this lockdown. Covid-19 seems to still be in business.

Your Golden Voice spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: Sad one.  This is the saddest Covid-19 news.