calls for repeal of all self serving laws

The Center for Human and Socio-Economic Rights (CHSR)group has petitioned the Lagos State House of Assembly,demanding the urgent repeal of Pension law 2007,describing the proviso granting Governor and Deputy Governor bogus earnings and benefits after term in office as wasteful and corrupt.

Comrade Alex Omotehinse the National President CHSR and
Agbedina Omokehinde National Secretary,highlighted in the petition already presented to the state legislature, several instances of needless wastage of the state resources on the frivolous pension grounds.


The petition read in part:
“We urge you to urgently considered necessary to repeal the Lagos State Governor and Deputy Governors Pensions Law of 2007 and other similar obnoxious legislature enacted by the Assembly; repealing this Law is not only right, but the right thing to do.

” The pension is bogus, it is wasteful and not in the best interest of the generality of the people. The object of government in peace and war is not the glory of rulers, but the happiness of the common man.

“The recent happening raveging the world show us clearly without no doubt that the level of poverty in our land is more than what we can imaging, 89% of the population live below poverty line.

” The wealth of the state must be use for the benefit of the greatest majority of our citizens; not just the privilege few.

Our common patrimony in the care of the leader or representative is not just for them and their relations and friends but for the common good of all.

He queried the all expense paid life that Governor and Deputy Governor are guaranteed by the provision in the said pension law, ranging from emoluments and )salaries,medical,transport,entertainment,housing and furniture allowances as a conduit pipe via which the generality of the populace are being fleeced of supposed common the patrimony.

“The Lagos State Governor and Deputy Governor Pensions Law of 2007 provides the former governor entitled to six new cars every three years and a house in Lagos and another in Abuja.

“We are of the opinion that, this pension law cannot stand the test of legality and constitutionality. Our State budgets have remained essentially elitist and principally aimed at satisfying the whims, caprices and greed of the ruling class; which often times have been exploitative and parasitic.

“Most of the beneficiaries are people in government, their agents and friends the citizen is on edge, we have highest number of poor in the world.

“Crime and criminality are at their highest level, the poor must now take the center stage over bogus elitist budget of which only benefit the super-rich, the elites, government official, expatriate collaborators and civil servants; their relation, agents and friends. “



CHSR also laid at the table of the state Governor and the Assembly a number of urgent demands; speedy repeal of the pension law and other similar obnoxious laws of the state, and the dire need for a comprehensive social welfare package, for the teaming(72%) Lagos populace living below the poverty line.