The acting National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Victor Giadom, on assumption of office on Wednesday, indicted the dethroned national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole,  over use of APC structures to fight for power control in his personal interest. He cautioned that the APC would no longer tolerate such. The emergent Ag. National chairman, therefore, upturned the decision of the screening committee which disqualified Governor Godwin Obaseki from contesting the APC primaries for the Edo State governorship election.
“Our party, the All Progressives Congress, will no longer allow local quests for the control of power to influence our decisions.
“As your Acting National Chairman and presiding officer in the NWC, we, therefore, cancel the decision of the Screening and Appeal Committees of the former Chairman of the party on the Edo primaries. This is in strict compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that forbids anyone who is interested in a cause to be a judge in that same cause,” Giadom declared in his inaugural speech on Wednesday.
He maintained: “It is a brazen rape on the Rule of Law and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the former Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomohle, to preside and select committees in respect to the Governorship primaries in Edo State being a key player in the crisis in that State. Whatever role the former Chairman was given to play in that process by the APC constitution, it cannot override the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which governs all of us.
“We, therefore, ask all aspirants in the Governorship Primaries to report for fresh screening between today and tomorrow. I call on all aspirants to remain in the All Progressives Congress as we guarantee fairness and justice to all concerned. The schedule and time for each aspirant shall be communicated.”
Giadom had acknowledged that the Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja, on Tuesday, in a unanimous judgement, affirmed the suspension of Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole by his ward in Edo State as member and National Chairman of APC.
He, therefore, recalled that on the 16th of March 2020, Hon Justice S.U. Bature in suit no FCT/HC/M/6447/2020 had ordered that, with the earlier suspension of Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomohle, he, Victor Giadom, should act as APC National Chairman. He noted that the Order could not be immediately effected at that time because of the temporary reprieve the Court of Appeal granted Oshiomohle on the same date. Giadom declared that having removed the temporary reprieve Tuesday by the Court of Appeal and considering the fact that the party cannot allow for a vaacum, he  has assumed office as Acting National Chairman of APC in compliance with the order of the court.
“I, therefore, most humbly solicit the support of the entire leadership and members of our great party in achieving this very important responsibility.
“I want to assure all party members that the All Progressives Congress will obey court orders/judgements as to bring sanity to our great party. Time for selective compliance of Court Orders and judgements is over,” he declared.
the Ag. Chairman ordered that the Deputy Organising Secretary of APC, Muhammad Sani Ibrahim, should immediately resume office as the Acting. National Organising Secretary in compliance with the judgement of the Federal High Court in suit no: FHC/ABJ/CS/733/2018 which removed the former National Organising Secretary, Emmanuel Ibediro, since 24th of September 2018. “This is to ensure strict compliance with the Rule of Law,” he said.
The acting national chairman appealed to the party leaders for cooperation at all levels in the onerous task to reposition the leadership of the party so as to guarantee fairness and justice to all.
The conflicts in the devastated APC deepened as the NWC disowned Giadom, APC national secretary who now succeeds Oshiomhole temporarily, and appointed Abiola Ajimobi, Deputy National Chairman, South;  APC acting national chairman;  while Shuabu, Deputy National Chairman, North; is also insisting on resuming as APC acting national chairman.