The Computer Village Market Board jointly led by the Iya Oja,Mrs Abisola Azeez-Isokpehi and the Baba Oja Mr Adeniyi Olasoji have refuted the rumour making the rounds that the Iyaloja General,Mrs Folashade Tinubu Ojo demanded N5m daily from them, describing the claim as false and unfounded,while they apologise profusely for the status damaging reports making the rounds on person.

The Market Board unequivocally disclosed that the report was mischievous, and that the N1000 charges was for internal security arrangements within the market.

According to Mrs Azeez Isokpehi, she made it clear that there is no crisis in the market;”we are operating harmoniously according to the directives of the Lagos State government to keep the COVID-19 scourge at bay and that the market had never been shut prior to the lockdown as claimed in the said report.

Contrary to news reports, she noted that the N1000 is for security and other day to day running of the market.

“We wish to explain the basis for the (N1000) requested from our market members;when I was installed as Iyaloja and Mr Adeniyi Olasoji was also installed as Babaloja,we saw it as an opportunity to keep our environment and security safe with regards for the Lagos state environmental law.

“In that purpose, we request for one thousand naira (N1,000) for security,market maintenance and cost implication of proposed increase of our security in the morning and night, eight months gone by after we have duly informed the members about this management fee,we just effect the need for payment a month ago and that was the crux of the matter.

“It is a blatant lie, there is no truth in the claim, Iyaloja General Chief Mrs Folashade Tinubu Ojo never asked us for any money , even when she visited Computer Village for the first time after our installation recently, it was to distribute palliatives and money due the COVID-19 pandemic.

“The 1000 naira monthly  is for security and to ensure the continuation of the good works we have been doing,it does not  amounts to N50,000 daily going by the number here.

“In total we have 4320 active members,those who have shops and offices here, we also fumigate the market monthly sequel to government directive to forestall the spread of COVID-19.

At no time was the market shut by Iyaloja General, and we never ordered that the market be shut down,the market has always been open for business on the assigned days .


“I have been in the market for over 30 years and had operated for 21 years Laptop Galleria,where we sell laptops.

“On the allegation that our Iyaloja General of Lagos State Mrs Folashade Tinubu Ojo Tinubu requests for N5m daily,we want to say it’s false and nothing of such ever existed,it is malicious,damaging and pure falsehood.

“The media are being deceived by some sources who want to drag the name of our great leader,ever vibrant and dugged Mama in the mud,we will not allow it to happen.

“We were not asked to provide N5m daily,neither did she ask anyone to give her anything.

“We are truly shocked by the social media outburst about her demand for N5m. She is a woman of honour that will never enslave or harass anybody,Iyaloja General has never asked us for any money since our inauguration as Iyaloja and Babaloja.

“We are committed to working harmoniously with the associations/different tribes in the market to make an all inclusive administration that will carry everyone along in the progress of the market board to a greater height,so the Igbo,Yoruba,majority group and other non Nigeria are one in the market.” Said Mrs Azeez-Isokpehi.

She hinted that the disgruntled individuals have been persuaded by Iyaloja General,to come up with the list of those representatives they want featured in the market board.