The fans of the Stamford Bridge club should be licking their tongues with the progress Chelsea is reportedly making in the transfer corridor ahead of next season.
Chelsea who have already captured the services of 27-year-old proficient winger Hakim Ziyech from Ajax for £38m are reportedly preparing a £75million bid for Bayer Leverkusen star Kai Havertz.
National Daily understands that the Blues are interested in uniting the attacking midfielder with his international team mate Timo Werner who was recently reported to have agreed transfer terms in principle with Chelsea.
Meanwhile, it is believed that the north London club face competition for Havertz, with Premier League rivals Liverpool and Manchester United as well as some European giants like Real Madrid and Bayern Munich who are believed to be also keen in securing the services of the 20-year Germany international.
The great news for Chelsea fans is the belief that Leverkusen have acknowledged their challenge to hold on to Havertz this summer going by the assertion of Leverkusen’s sporting director Simon Rolfes said:
“We don’t know yet what will happen to Kai.
“We know that all the great clubs from Germany and Europe are after him and that he has the ability to play anywhere.”
Meanwhile, Chelsea wingers Willian and Pedro are set to leave Stamford Bridge on free transfers this summer, and Chelsea want young wide players to replace them.
A potential arrival of Havertz who similarly, can be deployed as a centre forward or winger like Werner would undoubtedly give Frank Lampard and Chelsea an undeniable impressive array of attacking options along with Mason Mount and Tammy Abraham.
 
Chelsea however will be ready to splash out hefty transfer fees of £127m to actualize their dream of lure the two German internationals to Stanford Bridge with Havertz expected to command a minimum of £75m as transfer fee.
 
Remarkably, Havertz who made his first-team debut for Leverkusen when he was 17 and can boast of seven caps for Germany has scored five times in four games since the Bundesliga resumed thus, taking his league tally to 11 for the season.