The governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and ministers may have joined forces in alliance with President Muhammadu Buhari to tentatively seal the ousting of Adams Oshiomhole from the leadership of the party. A minister close to President Buhari was reported earlier this week to have cautioned that he will not speak yet on the conflicts ravaging the APC. The minister was previously linked to a force in the APC plotting the removal of Oshiomhole from the party’s leadership.
Several other  ministers were gathered to be working clandestinely mobilizing support for the APC NEC meeting scheduled for Thursday convened by Victor Giadom who President Buhari endorsed as APC acting national chairman after the ousting of Oshiomhole by the Court of Appeal.
The national chairman has been the major stake of APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in the ruling party since the alliance. The stake has now be taken away, and currently held by a political actor close to a prominent minister in President Buhari’s cabinet.
Meanwhile, Director-General of Progressives Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, who coordinates the organizational structure of the APC governors, has intensified mobilization of committed APC members and leaders to queue behind President Buhari for the success of the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting scheduled for Thursday in Abuja under the guise of resolving the conflicts ravaging the ruling party in an obvious asymmetric party patronage and stakes among the legacy parties.
Lukman in a statement on Wednesday, declared: “with all the confusion as to who is our presiding officer, coupled with the fact that the most important structure that is saddled with the responsibility of convening meetings of all organs of the party is fractured and entangled in webs of legal cases, it is either the confusion is allowed to continue and eventually end with the demise of the party, or our leaders find a way to save the party.”
The president’s endorsed APC acting National Chairman, Victor Giadom, convened the NEC meeting with the backing of President Buhari on Thursday. It is obvious that ACN could have weak representation with the exclusion of Oshiomhole at the Thursday meeting.