Victor Giadem, the former deputy national secretary of the ruling APC that wanted to ride on the heads of about nine of his superiors in the party food chain, has finally crashed thanks to his state chapter of the APC that suspended him.
The equally suspended national chairman Adams Oshiomhole earlier claim Giadom, from Rivers APC, is not acting alone. Behind him, many believe, is Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi who heads a splinter of the party in the south-south state.
Political analysts believe the crisis rocking the party is all about the 2023 presidency. The protagonist in the epic battle to control the party ahead of the time is the APC national leader Bola Tinubu.
The former Lagos governor is believed to be scheming to replace President Muhammadu Buhari. And his hatchet man is Oshiomhole whom Tinubu helped into office in 2018.
But the duo have to contend with a badass in the party: Amaechi. His own Man Friday is Giadom who has been playing spoilsport all along by taking the party to court, declaring himself acting APC, and playing brinkmanship with every party crisis.
Giadom has, however, been cut to size.
According to a statement signed by Livingstone Wechie, media adviser to the APC Rivers state Chairman Igo Aguma, on Sunday, Giadom has been suspended based on the recommendation of a fact-finding committee.
“Victor Giadom be immediately suspended from the party and every party activities for his numerous infractions of the party constitution and conduct, which had caused the party irredeemable disrepute,” the committee advised.
One of the fallouts of Giadom’s mischief is the Edo crisis tht raged for over a year, and climaxed in the disqualification of Gov Godwin Obaseki seeking a second term, and his defection to the PDP.
The gladiators here, Oshiomhole and his godson Obaseki belong in the opposing camps whose fight has embarrassed the entire party.
The statement added that Giadom should immediately write a letter of apology to the party and also publish the same letter on three national newspapers.