By Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
Indigenes of Ewulu Community in Aniocha South Local Government Area, Delta State, have been on rampage in the past five weeks over allegations of sales of community land by the traditional ruler, Obi Godwin Onyeweuwa, who, thereafter, flee the community amidst wide protests.
The people of Ewulu had on Tuesday continued their protest the fleeing Obi who they said left the community unannounced since June 2, 2020, as the protests involving women and youths intensified. The indigenes were agitating that their farmlands of over four square kilometres was sold by the Obi of Ewulu and his chiefs to non-indigenes unknown to families who own the lands, as well as the sons and daughters of the community. The lands were said to be allegedly sold at about N40 million in two separate deals. One of the deals was, however, said to involve an indigene of Ewulu who resides overseas.
Women in Ewulu community were said to have gone to their farms only to meet caterpillar bulldozing their farms and destroying their cassava plantation and other crops. This precipitated urgent inquiry that led to the discovery that the king and the chiefs sold the land to strangers. The women had gone on protest to the palace of the Obi of Ewulu who at the early stage confronted the women, chasing them from the palace. A woman was said to have been injured in that fracas. Thereafter, the youths joined the mass action in the community, demanding the Obi to explain the alleged sales of community lands, including people’s farms.
The chiefs were said to have earlier flee the community, while the Obi later fled as the protests continued to garner more momentum daily.
Some Ewulu Community residents who spoke to our Correspondent on condition of anonymity described the fleeing king as pathetic and a tyrant; saying that the traditional ruler, Obi Godwin Onyeweuwa, has allegedly been involved in several  protracted land disputes that had been unsettling the community and the neighbours.
A group of Concerned Ewulu Community residents had in a petition signed by the group’s Director of Publicity, Moses Ndubusi, a copy made available to our Correspondent, and addressed to the Special Adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Peace and Conflict Resolution, Mr. Edwin Uzor, accused the controversial king of despotism and requested that the Monarch, Obi Onyeweuwa, steps down.
The group subsequently demanded that a body of Chiefs and Elders of the community to take responsibility of the administration of Ewulu in the interim be constituted and headed by the traditional prime minister as well as the setting up of Interim National Executive Council of Ewulu Progressive Union (EPU) which should be given the mandate to conduct a general election within three months, in addition to the commencement of the installation of Okpala Ewulu, that’s the traditional coronation of the eldest man in the community.
The Petitioners had alleged the followings as the sins against the Monarch: indiscriminate and reckless sale of Ewulu Community and Family lands without due process, mismanagement of finances, insulting elders in the community, among others. They had declared:  “It’s a fact that almost 90 per cent of Ewulu sons and daughters both home and abroad want Obi Onyeweuwa to step aside since he has willingly and freely done so by his actions.”
But when Contacted on telephone, the traditional ruler, Obi Onyeweuwa, said he didn’t abdicate the throne as there was a court verdict to that effect, even as he refuted other allegations of despotism as false and baseless. He argued: “how can I abdicate the throne, who will exile a King. Can someone just wake up and dethrone the Obi; which law court gave the verdict?”
The indigenes of Ewulu community are bent on recovering their lands from the scavengers while demanding for a new Obi of Ewulu. The youths had vehemently sustained the protest, especially, with burn tyres at Ogbe Achi, the Obi’s lineage, declaring an end to the reign of the fleeing Obi.