The seemingly calm atmosphere at the Lagos State House of Assemby got ruffled on Tuesday during plenary as one of the four lawmakers reinstated after weeks of suspension,staged a walk out on grounds of convenience.

The lawmaker Hon Moshood Oshun (Mainland 1) actually walked out of the hallowed chamber while the sitting is ongoing.

The act was sequel to the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa’s directive that Hon Oshun move to his allocated seat instead of the one he was sitting on.

According to the lawmaker prior to his action,he explained that he had earlier complained about the seat alloted to him of not being convenient.

The Speaker thereafter told Oshun, If everyone chooses his or her seat, how would the chamber looked.

Obasa therefore stated that Oshun should comply with the rule of the House or he should take a leave and Oshun immediately take a walk out of the chamber.

Recall that the House had in March removed two of its principal officers, the Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru and the Deputy Majority Leader, Olumuyiwa Jimoh.

While two other members of the House, Moshood Oshun (Lagos Mainland Constituency II) and Kazeem Raheem Adewale (Ibeji Lekki Constituency II), were also suspended indefinitely.

Announcing the suspension of the members, the Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, stated that the House as the hope of the people and the heartbeat of democracy should be well guided.

“I hereby invoke Section 68 and Section 70 4 (a, b) 2 and 3 of the House Rules in respect of gross misconduct, insubordination and action that can destablise this House. I hereby move that Moshood Oshun and Raheem Adewale be placed on suspension indefinitely,” the Speaker said.

The two decisions were supported through voice-votes by members present during plenary as change in the leadership was contained in a letter read on the floor of the House by the Clerk, Mr.Azeez Sanni.

Sanni stated that the 26 members that signed the letter urged the House “to change the leadership of the House, including Rotimi Abiru as the Chief Whip and Olumuyiwa Jimoh as Deputy Chief Whip.”
However, the suspension of the four lawmakers had been lifted after the intervention of the party hierarchy and the four reinstated.