By Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
The Yoruba Community in Delta State on Thursday alerted Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on the strategies of the killer Fulani herdsmen attacking and destroying rural ares.
Leader of the Yoruba Community in Delta State, Asiwaju General, Alhaji Lawal Famous, in a media interaction  said that the Fulani herdsmen who have been destroying farmlands and allegedly killing people across the state, have been working with Indigenes who hide under the guise of security organizations. Alhaji Lawal Famous stated that the Fulani herdsmen who do not know anyone in those communities often work with Indigenes of any community they operate, adding that they operate without the security agents knowing, and in most cases, they give their informants money.
Alhaji Lawal Famous said: “Fulani herdsmen attack strategies are aided by the Indigenes, including their Kidnap strategies; they move into camps with the help of these Indigenes who will reach agreement with them and in the end they operate freely without hitches.”
He called on Governor Okowa to set up Committee that will monitor the activities of the people in various communities
Noting that the activities of the Fulani herdsmen has become serious threats to Deltans, Alhaji Lawal Famous disclosed that Operation Hawk will flush out all the hoodlums, including the killer Fulani herdsmen in the state. “we, the Yoruba Community in Delta State, are solidly behind Okowa and his Executive in the state, and we are fully ready to work with him,” he declared.
On the colossal damage by the suspected herdsmen in the state, Alhaji Lawal Famous recalled that the Monarch of Ubulu Uku community was Kidnapped and killed some years ago by suspected Fulani herdsmen while many Farmers had abandoned their farmlands and crops for fear of the unknown. He appealed to the Police Commissioner in Delta State, Hafiz Muhammed Inuwah, to redouble his efforts with a view to bringing those responsible for the evil activities to arrest.
“We commend Governor Okowa on his good work and his proposed Operation Hawk; the Governor means well for the state and citizens. We will work with him and ensure our support for him at all times” Alhaji Lawal Famous declared.