The family of late former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, was unable to secure a portion of land in Ibadan they had preferred to bury the late governor because of pending litigation on the land which was initiated by the deceased when he was governor but could not conclude before his death. The late governor’s family had sent an emissary to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State seeking permission to bury the deceased governor on a plot of land at Agodi GRA, currently under litigation. Unfortunately, it was discovered that the “Incidentally, it was the same former Governor Ajimobi who instituted the legal action;” but could not conclude the suit before his death. Meanwhile, entrance into the land is prohibited by the court pending the conclusion of the suit. Thus, the plot of land retains a legal mark of ‘no trespass’.
The Oyo State Government made the revelation in protest of the falsehood that the government was delaying the burial of Senator Abiola Ajimobi who died on Thursday and later buried on Saturday.
The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Taiwo Adisa, in a statement on Saturday declared: “In view of the intense enquiries from news media organisations regarding the perceived delay in burying the late former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, the Oyo State Government wishes to place on record that there is no truth in the rumour making the rounds that the burial is being delayed by the state government.
“The rumour, which is being deliberately spread to give the state government a bad name and to play undue politics with the dead, initially came by the way of social media gossip, which gained traction to attract the attention of traditional media outfits.
“Several media outfits reached out to the Media Office of the Governor of Oyo State to make enquiries on this barefaced lie on Saturday.
“Let it be stated clearly that the Governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde, has played no role at all in causing any delay whatsoever regarding the burial of his immediate predecessor, Senator Ajimobi.
“The truth of the matter is that the family, through a proxy, approached the state government and sought approval to bury the late governor on a plot of land at Agodi GRA, which is currently under litigation.
“Incidentally, it was the same former Governor Ajimobi who instituted the legal action.
“Governor Seyi Makinde had no choice than to state the facts as they are to the emissaries and turn down the request.
“Governor Makinde, however, against the established land use rule in Oyo State, gave approval that the family can bury the late governor in his Oluyole Estate residence.
“It is to be noted that the rules guiding land use in Government Reservation Areas (GRA) forbid the burial of bodies in such locations as Oluyole Estate and Agodi GRA.
“Let us also put on record that whereas the family did not follow the laid down protocols in passing information on the sickness and eventual demise of Senator Ajimobi, Governor Makinde overlooked all that and directed the full cooperation of the government with the family on this matter.
“It can only amount to a wicked lie to insinuate that the incumbent government in Oyo State attempted to obstruct the burial of the immediate past governor.”