BURNLEY, ENGLAND - OCTOBER 26: Chelsea manager Frank Lampard during the Premier League match between Burnley FC and Chelsea FC at Turf Moor on October 26, 2019 in Burnley, United Kingdom. (Photo by Kevin Barnes - CameraSport via Getty Images)
        
 








National Daily can confirm from the report making the rounds that Chelsea have recently held a transfer agreement in principle with RB Leipzig’s talisman Timo Werner.
Meanwhile, National Daily has furthered gathered that former English Premier League hitman, Alan Shearer has warned Chelsea that Timo Werner will be expecting Champions League football next season.
It is understood that the Blues are on the brink of landing RB Leipzig star Werner after meeting his £53million release clause with in a £180m weekly wage.
And Alan Shearer admits that Lampard, whose side sit three points clear of Manchester United in fourth, are under huge pressure to retain that spot when the Premier League season resumes next week to ensure that they qualify for the UEFA Champions League.
Shearer believes that a Champions League football could help Chelsea fulfill their top transfer quests
The former Newcastle captain writing in The Sun, though pointed out that Chelsea have made a great statement with Werner’s acquisitiion:
 
“Signing Timo Werner is a huge statement from Chelsea – but it would be a kick in the teeth not to make the top four now.
 
“Along with Hakim Ziyech, they have got two big-hitters through the door before the transfer window has opened.
“I am certain there will be more to come, too, with Ben Chilwell also on their radar.
“But these players will all be expecting to play in the Champions League next season, so it’s imperative they get the job done.
“With a three-point cushion in fourth it would be a real anti-climax if they didn’t, considering the talent on the way in.”
The Blues emerged as shock frontrunners to land Werner last week after Liverpool performed a U-turn and seemingly pulled out of the race to land Werner.
And Shearer reckons Lampard is building an impressive squad in west London.
Shearer added: “Whether they do make it or not, Frank Lampard’s squad is looking in great shape.
“And in Werner, they’ve got someone who a lot of other top teams in Europe wanted.
“At 24, he’s the perfect age, his international career is taking off, and he will without a doubt add something special.”