As part of efforts to celebrate the 2020 International Seafarer’s Day, Ocean Deep Services Limited donated Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) and food items to seafarers at LTT Coastal and Services, operating at the Continental Shipyard, Lagos.
The Chief Executive Officer, Ocean Deep Services Ltd., Mrs. Rollens Macfoy made the donation yesterday, while she commended the services of seafarers around the globe amid the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic.
Macfoy whose company specializes in training seafarers, describing them as the heartbeat of the world and vital workers responsible for the sustenance of global trade.
She encouraged the federal government to recognize and celebrate seafarers involved in merchant shipping, lamenting that only those seafarers in the Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and few in reputable shipping organizations like LTT Coastal and Marine Services were proud to be identified as seafarers.
According to Macfoy, there is a dire need for shipping stakeholders to look out for the needs of seafarers and meet them, noting that such gesture has been in short supply in the sector.
The items donated were branded nose masks, sanitizers, handwash, water, noddles, snacks and soft drinks.
Noting the travel restrictions and other challenges confronting seafarers, Macfoy said, “Seafarers have been marginalized over the years, but hold on! Keep doing the good work that you’re known for. Your focus should remain unscathed as this would keep taking you higher”
She commended LTT Coastal and Marine Services and its sister company, Depasa Marine International (Nigeria) for supporting and employing Nigerian seafarers over the years especially its penchant for female seafarers.
Receiving the items, the General Manager of Depasa Marine International (Nigeria), Mr. Guy Agassi appreciated Ocean Deep Services for the donation.
He stressed that the company would continue to prioritize safety and adhere strictly to the guidelines because it prioritized the well-being of seafarers as well as the administrative members of staff.
Agassi also revealed that the company had introduced mechanisms to curb the pandemic before the federal government issued guidelines.
Also speaking at the event, the Human Resource Manager, LTT, Mrs. Theodora Nwaeze commended Ocean Deep Services for the donation.
Nwaeze noted that it was the first time in 13 years that a shipping stakeholder approached the company with materials as donation.
She also celebrated Rollens Macfoy as one of the maritime amazons in the country, citing her role in mentorship for female seafarers.
Macfoy is also the Vice President of African Women in Maritime (WIMAFRICA), Nigerian Chapter.