The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, may have laid ambush for Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State after the illegal disqualification of the governor from contesting the primary election of the party for the Edo governorship election. Obaseki had resolved not to appeal the action because Oshiomhole has hijacked the APC and using the party for personal enterprise and political wars. The Edo Governor, however, said he would consult President Muhammadu Buhari before taking any action on the disqualification from the APC primary election. However, Oshiomhole has gone ahead of Obaseki to influence the major channel to the president, the Office of the  Chief of Staff to the president; and  manipulate the seat of power against whatever explanation Governor Obaseki may be going there to make before the president on the undemocratic behaviours of Oshiomhole in the leadership of the APC. Presidency source said Oshiomhole allegedly begged the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, for support in persuading President Muhammadu Buhari on the disqualification of Obaseki.
Oshiomhole, accordingly, led the National Working Committee (NWC) of APC on Monday to the Chief of Staff (CoS) to President Buhari, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, for a meeting.
A source from the presidency disclosed that Oshiomhole being conscious of President Buhari’s stance on due process and political corruption, deliberately boycotted Buhari and went to the Chief of Staff for a meeting at the State House on Monday, allegedly begging Gambari to convince President Buhari that the disqualification of the Edo Governor, Obaseki, is justified. from participating in the state’s gubernatorial primaries. The source said that Oshiomhole was aware Buhari may not tolerate his recklessness of power in the screening process and the outcome which had caused huge embarrassment for the APC as a lawless party unmindful of internal democracy and the party’s laid down rules of transparency.
However, Oshiomhole in his parochial view, attempted to justify the disqualification of Obaseki from the APC primary election in Edo State. The APC national chairman was alleged to have begged the Chief of Staff to convey their explanations to the president before the consultation with Obaseki.