consider Kosofe youthful,experienced candidates 

A Lagos based group,Joint Action for Good Governance (JAGG) has urged the stakeholders within the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consider Kosofe Constituency first, in the alleged bid to fill the vacuum created in the Lagos East Senatorial District by late Senator Bayo Osinowo’s demise.
JAGG notes that it is pertinent to bring to bear, the fact that the deceased Senator from Kosofe Federal constituency barely spent a year out of his four years at the senate before death come calling, so likely candidates from the constituency should be favoured,especially the youthful  ones with impactful political antecedents.
In a statement made available to newsmen which was jointly signed by the group’s National Vice President,Comrade Abdulwaheed Odunuga and Comrade Ogundipe Moses the Lagos State Co-ordinator.
JAGG commiserate with the party on the demise of Senator Bayo Sikiru Osinowo, noting the constitutional model for replacement.
“We write to commiserate with the entire All Progressives Congress (APC) on the death of Senator Bayo Sikiru Osinowo.
“There is no doubt that the demise of the experienced parliamentarian has created vacuum within the East Senatorial District, Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole. We ask God to forgive his sins and grant him Aljanat Fridaous (Amen).
“Reports in both print and social media suggest that the jostle for the replacement of the late senator has begun and several names including;Senator Olorunibe Mamora,Senator Gbenga Bareehu Ashafa,Chief Lanre Rasak,Honourable Dayo-Bush Alebiosu.
“Others are Mr.Akinwunmi Ambode,Honourable Jimi Benson, Honourable Abike Dabiri and Dr Tola Kasali.
“These names, we gather have cropped up for possible replacement for Lagos East Senatorial District at the Red Chambers.
“Without prejudice to the political weights and inclinations of the above names and with the recent call on young people for leadership positions and participation in both local & national politics, we would like to categorically state that a young and vibrant legislator is who the East Senatorial District deserve.
“The potential lawmaker must also boast of experience with track records in legislative functions.
“Consequent to the aforementioned, It is on record that the deceased senator had barely completed a year of his four year mandate before the cold hand of death caught up with him.
“In this light, we would like to clearly state that the Federal constituency from which the deceased senator emerged should be given utmost consideration for his replacement.
“This is to give a sense of accomplishment to the constituency.
“We implore the party hierarchy and leadership to lend credence to our position and carefully make appropriate selection.
“Whilst also calling on the National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who has been known for his fair judgment and sense of reasoning in the balance of power within the state vis a vis Local Governments within all the Senatorial Districts.”