The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Friday played a fast one on Victor Giadom, the erstwhile Deputy National Secretary of party who had been laying claims to the party chairmanship seat after the former chairman, Adams Oshiomhole was suspended through a court order.
As part of the plans to remove the carpet from under Giadom’s feet, the party sworn in Worgu Boms as its new Deputy National Secretary, claiming that Giadom lost his position as the party’s deputy national secretary when he resigned to be a running mate to Tonye Cole, Rivers governorship aspirant in the 2019 election.
On Sunday, the party in Rivers suspended Giadom, the same treatment a faction of APC Edo had meted out to suspended national chairman Adams Oshiomhole.
Giadom, however, is still fighting, despite the torrents of missiles from various directions
With the development, Borns, a former attorney-general of Rivers State, has replaced Victor Giadom as the party’s deputy national scribe.
Meanwhile, Giadom had denied that he resigned his position as claimed by Etta, and this position was supported by Salihu Mustapha, APC North-East vice-chairman, who insisted that Giadom did not resign his position to contest the election.
According to Mustapha, instead of resigning, Adams Oshiomhole gave Giadom a waiver in September2018 that enabled him to seek the deputy governorship position of Rivers and discharge his duties as deputy national secretary.
Mustapha said in a statement on Sunday, “Just like Giadom, Chief Moghalu came back as national auditor when he lost the primary election of the party in Anambra state.”
Lawyer to Giadom, Wole Afolabi, in a statement on Monday declared Giadom’s suspension as contemptuous of the ruling of Justice Bature of the FCT Federal High Court on 10 March.
To Afolabi, the consequential ruling of the court, remains valid, after the Appeal Court ruling that upheld Oshiomhole’s suspension by the lower court on 4 March.
To further lay claim to APC chairmanship, Giadom notified INEC, that he is the acting chairman of the APC, as declared by Justice Bature.
He also asked INEC to disregard the APC governorship primary in Edo state, which he had singularly cancelled.
The crisis within the ruling party has continued to threaten the party apart, as different factions seemed to have emerged, pushing their own individual agenda.