Share this on WhatsApp





The news of a possible departure of Lionel Messi from Nou Camp has dominated the space recently.
The Argentinian captain who was pictured back in Barcelona for the first time since he handed in a transfer request was spotted leaving a restaurant with his best friend Luis Suarez has decided to call it quit with his boyhood club after over 16 years of illustrious career with them.
It has been reported that the six-time Ballon D’Or winner Messi has already decided on  quitting Nou Camp; a decision that most Barcelona fans around the world have since seen as heart-rending.
Though the Catalan club have remained optimistic in keeping their talismanic captain, but major indices indicate that their desire could end up as an uphill task.
Messi who appeared to have aggravated Barcelona’s turbulence earlier this week by sending them a fax demanding his contract be terminated via a clause in the agreement that could see the record Ballon D’Or winner leave for free at the end of every season.
Meanwhile, Barcelona have remained adamant that the clause is not valid with their insistence that it expired in June and are now battling to keep hold of their star-man.
However, Barcelona’s former hitman Ronaldo is of the opinion that both parties should amicably resolve their differences and stick together due to their everlasting bond.
The former Real Madrid striker has warned Messi that his love for Barcelona will remain alive even if he ends up quitting Nou Camp National Daily can confirm.
“It’s very unlikely that he’ll be able to leave Barcelona at the moment, especially when there’s a crisis of results,” Ronaldo said at a webinar hosted by Santander.
“Messi is a reference for the team and, if I were Barcelona, I wouldn’t let him leave in any situation.
“He has a great and strong relationship with the club and I don’t think he’ll stop being in love with the team.”
But agonizingly for Barcelona it seems that, Messi’s love for the club is not what it once was, at least for now.
Nonetheless, there is no doubt that most Barcelona fans are hoping for the best namely, to have their captain remained at Nou Camp.


 
 
 
 






				
				PV: 
				29
			Share this on WhatsApp