Barcelona reached the quarter finals of the Champions League, after a relatively easy 3-1 win against Napoli in the round of 16. But what might concern them is the injury scare of their talisman, Lionel Messi for the quarter finals.

After drawing their ,first leg 1-1 in Naples, Barca went into the game as the team with the advantage. It didn’t take them long to go in front in the second leg as well. After just 10 minutes, defender Clement Lenglet gave them the lead after heading the ball past a diving Ospina.

Lionel Messi extended the lead with another typical goal of his at 23rd minute. But right before the stroke of halftime, the Cules suffered a big scare when their skipper trying to nick the ball past Kalidou Koulibaly, suffered a nasty hit to the ankle. The Argentine looked in severe discomfort after the blow. Though he managed to carry on and finish the match, there are concerns over his fitness.

Manager Quique Setien while addressing the situation, revealed the player need attention prior to their quarter final clash in Lisbon. He told as quoted by Goal, “He took a strong hit, but he looks okay. It’ll need treatment but I don’t think it’ll be a problem.”

They will face the German champions ,and one of the favourites to win the competition in Bayern Munich next. Bayern thumped Chelsea 7-1 over the two legs and headed by their star forward Robert Lewandowski, looks in dangerous form. Setien is aware of the threat the Bavarian club, possess and is expecting a tough game. “It’ll be a really tough game. They have gone through a tie with a six-goal margin. They are an amazing team and it’ll be a great game,” he added.

Barcelona would look to put behind the disappointments of the past and charge towards their sixth continental crown in the coming days. This is the last trophy available to them this season and if they fail to win, they’ll go trophyless for the first time in years. So, if there was any added motivation needed, this will serve them good. Needless to say, Lionel Messi is going, to be crucial in this journey.