Share this on WhatsAppThe candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Friday revealed that he is contesting the election to fix Edo State. He observed that the incumbent governor has become distracted by unnecessary political battles and loss of administrative control in the governance of the state. Thus, according to Ize-Iyamu, socio-economic development has been slaughtered on the altar of political conflicts.
Pastor Ize-Iyamu declared: “We have seen a government completely distracted by needless wars of self-aggrandizement and a complete lack of administrative control, which resulted in endless internal squabbles between aides, many of whom lost faith in the governor and his style of leadership.”
Pastor Ize-Iyamu regretted that such loss of faith in the present governor’s ability has cost the state dearly, stalled the people’s development and compelled the need for an urgent change to reset the state and start afresh.
“All of these,” the APC candidate stated, “depleted state resources, oftentimes through questionable means, and took a great toll on governance.”
Ize-Iyamu decried that education was a prime victim of the lack of leadership, executive in-fighting and confusion in Edo State.
He said: “Not a single teacher was hired in four years despite the fact that schools in our rural communities suffer acute shortage of teachers and other personnel.”
The APC candidate expressed that his priority would be to correct this anomaly, arguing that a government that failed in education had failed in everything; and merited to be replaced and fast.
“A government that failed to prioritize the education of our children, particularly, at the primary level, which is the bedrock of all other levels of learning, has failed in its mandate and betrayed the trust of the people – no ifs and buts,” the APC governorship candidate declared.
Ize-Osagie maintained that the need  to fix these serious problems and salvage the state from poor leadership precipitated his participation in the governorship election.
The Pastor expressed the belief that the people of Edo State would honour him with their mandate on September 19. He, however, acknowledged that from their reception of both his campaigns and SIMPLE agenda ideas, he had no doubt that would be accepted by the people and be given their mandate on September 19.

				
				PV: 
				6
			Share this on WhatsApp