The All Progressives Congress (APC) may be facing uncertainties in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State as two former governors, both APC leaders in the state, shun the electioneering campaign of the party. The two former Edo governors, Professor Oserheimen Osunbor and Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, former APC national chairman,  were said to have dumped the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and his godfather, Adams Oshiomhole, abandoning them to the party’s governorship campaign.
Some stakeholders in Edo State told National Daily that the two former governors declared their support for incumbent Governor Obaseki when he was in the APC. They were with him in the battle for the APC governorship ticket to the point that the Oshiomhole cabal in the party disqualified Obaseki from contesting the party’s primary election during the screening of aspirants. The autocratic action culminated into the removal of Oshiomhole within 36 hours of the disqualification of Obaseki as APC national chairman.
The stakeholders maintained that the two former governors insist on stranding by the decision to support Obaseki in the September 19 governorship election.
Oyegun had cautioned of the severe consequences of using the APC structures by Oshiomhole to eliminate incumbent Governor Obaseki from the governorship race on the platform of the party.
Odigie-Oyegun who was appointed a member of the APC Campaign Council for the Edo governorship election, shunned the APC campaign takeoff which brought several APC governor to Edo State penultimate week. Former Governor Osunbor was also absent at the campaign kickoff. Both former governors have continued to ignore the Ize-Iyamu, Oshiomhole campaign on the APC platform.
While they are still APC members, they were said to have aligned with incumbent Governor Obaseki; their supporters, friends and political allies were said to be with them for Obaseki.
Moreover, several card-carrying APC members in Edo State were said to be supporting the incumbent governor in the election.
National Daily gathered that all former governors in Edo State with the exception of Oshiomhole, are supporting incumbent Governor Obaseki. Oshiomhole is apparently a lone ranger in the electioneering campaign of the APC in Edo State.
There were indications that more defections from APC to PDP could occur in Edo State about two to three weeks to the September 19 governorship election.