Nigerian Stories on Twitter made an erroneous post that reads, “Meet Bisade Ologunde is a Nigerian afrobeat musician, singer-songwriter and percussionist. Widely known as Lágbájá !!! his signature use of mask which covers his identity”.

But Tobi Kolawole, a photographer disagrees with the post. He said, “This is not Lagbaja the musician, this is Fatoki Taiye Timmy whose alias is Lagbaja, I’m sure of this cos I shot the picture in the first frame at MC Diouf’s comedy show (the governor) which held on 2018 Easter Monday at Osogbo”.

Aside getting his identity sorted many of the fans are still trying to track the musicians whereabout. Since the Opebi Motherland center where he frequently performed in the past seems to have a new owner.

The last time National Daily visited the spot, it’s become a work site where a huge structure is currently experiencing Work In Progress. The place is no longer a music center. So people wonder, “he just disappeared from limelight. Did aliens kidnap him or something? I couldn’t even find his song when I tried to stream them online”.

But they say that because they assume the ever young Lagbaja of back in the days has an anti-ageing formular. “You say he disappeared. Well  I understand that due to the mask, a lot of people do not think about how old Lagbaja must be. Baba has been singing since when? Do the maths. I dont think he disappeared, he probably is now tending to the things that elders tend to. Lagbaja is old and should be 60yrs this year (around April 2020)”. And thats from a fan that did attended his shows at motherland/Ikeja and when he played at  OSUA/UNAD in the mid 90s up to early 2000.

It’s not as if Lagbaja is invisible. Sonubi Olumide says, “I taught his daughter a few years back. Lagbaja is a tall dark and handsome man. Either he’s a shy person or just doesn’t like to reveal his identity.
That vacation day when he came to pick her beautiful, reserved and brilliant girl; someone who knew him whispered that’s Lagbaja”

And another person said, “The day my mum saw his real face sometime in 2011… She talked about it almost everyday and She still talks about it…. I’m on my way to show her this tweet right now”.

Yet it is safe to say the men in the pictures are not Lagbaja. One bears lagbaja as a nickname, he is actually Taye Fatoki.

But people who know him claim the real Lagbaja has a tribal mark and his father is a pastor of one church in Ilorin. They also say his dad was never in support of their son doing secular music. As such to respect the family, he decided to use the mask.

Another face most people call Lagabaja is that of Tamedu.

Nobody has been able to unmask the Glo ambassador. And at 60, the music icon certainly is less interested about revealing his identity for trend sake.