Share this on WhatsApp 
President Muhammadu Buhari may have ridiculed the ousted national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, over his many lies in the electioneering campaign for the governorship election in Edo State. The President may have approved the federal government delegation which was in Edo State last Thursday on inspection of the Edo Modular Refinery project, which the federal government’s visiting team   confirmed is 95 per cent (mechanical works) completed, acknowledging tis location at Ologbo, Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of the state.
Oshiomhole had in a media interaction after his urgent visit to President Buhari last Monday at the State house, Abuja, said that the APC leaders in their relationship with the people of Edo State cannot find projects done by Obaseki in any part of the state. The ousted APC chairman said that the reason is simply that the incumbent governor spent all his time signing memorandum of understanding for modular refinery which is not on ground. Oshiomhole further said that not only that work is slow but that nothing has been done.
Meanwhile, the inspection visit of the federal government delegation led by the  Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to  President Buhari on Niger Delta Affairs, Edobor Iyamu, to the refinery tend to convey to Nigerians that the former APC national chairman must have lied against incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State.  This is more so when the SSA to the President, Iyamu, commended the Edo State Government for the commitment to make sure the modular refinery becomes operational.
Iyamu had noted that modular refinery project in Edo State is in line with the vision of President Buhari for the development of the Niger Delta; and creating opportunities  for the people maximize the benefits of the oil wealth in the zone. He maintained that the modular refinery project is anticipated to pull investments to the oil and gas sector in the south-south.
It was gathered that the Chairman of the Edo Refinery and Petrochemical Company, Michael Osime, disclosed the Modular refinery has received funding assistance from the Edo State Government to the sum of N700 million. Osime was said to be represented during the inspection visit by the company’s Global Adviser, Frans Ojielu.
The chairman further revealed that the 6,000 barrels per day modular refinery in Edo has fabrication facilities to promote local capacity for production of materials; capable of providing necessary support for establishment of other modular refineries.
The chairman also narrated: “in 2016, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, embarked on the tour of the region where he met with the key stakeholders to deliberate on issues of improving the social and economic wellbeing of the people of the Niger Delta, which is in line with the six points agenda of Mr. President. This is one of the products of that tour.”
Apparently, the Presidency after the Monday statement of Oshiomhole, on Thursday exposed the many lies of the former APC national chairman. The federal government delegation had in the tour shown to the world that the Modular Refinery for which governor Obaseki signed Memorandum of Understanding, as acknowledged by Oshiomhole, is not only real  but is 95% ready for operation.
Share this on WhatsApp