Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), may have covertly joined the latent contest for the 2023 presidential ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The Ekiti Governor, according to southwest sources, may be moving to counter the speculated presidential ambition of the APC national leader, Aswiaju Bola Tinubu. The sources said that since Tinubu has at different times denied having presidential ambition, it was reasonable for Fayemi to join the race and ensure the southwest is involved in the struggle for the APC presidential ticket.
However, in the realms of political simulation and overtures, Tinubu had developed visible mobilization structures in many states of the Federation, many of which may be voluntary, according to National Daily findings.
Meanwhile, like some other presidential aspirants, Governor Fayemi’s poster is fast circulating on the social media. The campaign team of the governor have joined other groups in the mobilization of support for their principals.
There have been calculations that Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State may be aspiring for the vice-presidential ticket of the APC in 2023, thus, his advocacy for rotation of the president to the south. Some APC stakeholders have noted that it may not be out of place that Governor El-Rufai may have been negotiating a joint-presidential ticket of the APC with Governor Fayemi.
Furthermore, some party stakeholders were of the view that Governor Fayemi may be deploying the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) to lobby and mobilize support for the APC presidential ticket. Some APC stakeholders suspect the recent attack on the former APC national chairman by the Director General of the Progressives Governors. Oshiomhole is a close ally of Tinubu.
However, Fayemi, like several other visible and invisible presidential aspirants for 2023, is yet to make any official declaration for the 2023 presidential race. While no presidential aspirant has made a formal declaration; or continues to deny interest, no one has ordered their campaign workers or mobilization groups to desist from their activities. Nigerians are, however, at alert as events unfold.