Share this on WhatsApp 
The clash between the Department of State Security (DSS) and members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Enugu on Sunday led to the death of two DSS operatives, and purported death of over 30 IPOB members. The DSS operatives and the IPOB leaders are making contradictory claims on the circumstance of the clash which later led to bloodshed.
The DSS had in statement by the Public Relations Officer, Peter Afunanya, narrated that a patrol team of the DSS of the operatives was attacked in Enugu on Sunday by IPOB members.
Afunanya decried that the Service lost two of officials “in what was clearly an unprovoked violent attack”.
The DSS, however, noted that the Service has put measures in place to apprehend the killers.
IPOB, however, narrated that the DSS had stormed the Practicing School, Emene, Enugu East Local Government Area, Enugu State, where IPOB members were observing Jewish prayers, then, commenced arrest of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)  members. They said that IPOB members attempted to resist the arrest; this was said to have been responded with shooting allegedly by the security imperatives. An IPOB member was said to have been initially killed in the fracas and some others injured. It was said that on the seeing of an IPOB member in the pool of blood, other members were provoked into attacking the DSS and police, killing two DSS officials in the fracas.
Witnesses alleged that the security operatives sought reinforcement; and over 12 patrol vans were said to have arrived the scene conveying Police, Army and DSS personnel. Further violence was said to have culminated into the killing of over 30 IPOB members. The fracas was said to have disrupted church services in the environs.  
However, DSS statement on the incident on Sunday read:
Unprovoked Violent Attack on DSS Patrol Team in Enugu
“The DSS wishes to inform the public that its patrol team was, today, 23rd August, 2020, attacked in Emene, Enugu State by members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
“The Service lost two personnel in what was clearly an unprovoked violent attack launched by IPOB on the team.
“The Service hereby condoles with families of the departed officers and also prays for the repose of their souls.
“However, all measures have been put in place to ensure that their killers and everyone involved in this dastardly act are promptly apprehended and brought to justice. Consequently, a full-scale investigation will be carried out with regard to the incident.
“Once again, the Service reaffirms its commitment to assiduously work with other security agencies to maintain public safety and order. It, therefore, urges law abiding citizens and residents to go about their normal businesses without fear.”
Share this on WhatsApp