President Mohamadu Buhari has condemned the events in Mali. He labelled it a great setbacks for regional diplomacy, “with grave consequences for the peace and security of West Africa. It is time for the unconstitutional ‘authority’ in Mali to act responsibly and ensure restoration of constitutional order, peace and stability.”

Buhari went ahead to state Nigeria’s position in the matter. He said Nigeria is strongly supporting the efforts of ECOWAS Chairman, President Mahamadou Issoufou, for wider regional and continental consultations with ECOWAS, the AU and the UN, and the adoption of strong measures to bring speedy resolution to the situation.

“A politically stable Mali is paramount and crucial to the stability of the sub-region. We must all join efforts, ECOWAS, the AU, the UN and other stakeholders, and work together until sanity returns to Mali with the restoration of Civil Administration”.

He delivered this message on his Twitter page as Nigerians living in diaspora quickly hijacked the opportunity to sell their thoughts to the President.

One twitter handle tweeted, “The events in Mali is exactly what Nigeria needs but our Military is a lame duck.”

Another supported that, “Democracy has been a curse to our people in Africa including Nigeria. PMB trying to fix infrastructures, the NASS keeps playing politics with it while our people dies daily. Big thieves are let off because of corrupt judiciary. Is democracy really about the people in Africa ?”

Some handles still expressed confidents in Mr President’s administration like this tweet,”Thank you for your leadership. Africa is stronger since you became president of Nigeria. I have always believe if Nigeria can realize its potential, Africa will realize its potential. Being peace maker is a big part of that potential.”

However if you scroll tbrough the thread you will see a handfull siggesting that democracy is a curse, ‘It’s keeping our people in bondage while the elites live in paradise on public money, people who claim to represent the people are the clog in the wheel of progress. Nigeria for instance, they will never have another Buhari but they won’t allow the man to work for the people. I do not think Africa and Africans deserves democracy”.


Earlier today, the Military officers who overthrew Mali’s president in a coup d’etat that drew international condemnation pledged to restore stability and oversee a transition to elections within a “reasonable” period.