Share this on WhatsAppThe People’s Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki, on Sunday received the full backing of leading activists, civil society groups, lawyers, journalists and political leaders from all parts of Edo State.
‘’Governor Godwin Obaseki is the best politician in the state’s current history. We’re looking forward to his re-election’’ the professionals said.
At a meeting to share perspectives and strategies on how to ensure the victory of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, the professionals vowed to retire All Progressives Congress (APC) former national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the party’s gubernatorial candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu from Edo State politics.
‘’Governor Godwin Obaseki’s re-election is certain. The road ahead is so smooth”
Edo State Professional spokesman, Dr Joseph Alli, in a statement in Ekpoma, said the professionals extolled Obaseki for building strong communities, generating growth and creating opportunities for the good people of Edo State.
‘’Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is not travelling well in public opinion polls, largely due to past records. He lacks a clear policy plan. His political appeal remains limited’’
The professionals praised Obaseki for fulfilling electoral pledges made in 2016, building roads, expanding business development and empowering the people.
‘’ Governor Godwin Obaseki is very committed to the future of Edo State. He will continue his efforts to make Edo State great’’.
They vowed to resist all attempts to drag Edo State backward by enemies of progress.
‘’Greed and envy have set in to becloud the sense of reasoning of some individuals in Edo State. A window of opportunity is still open to them to join Governor Godwin Obaseki. PDP is stronger than APC in Edo State’’
The professionals highlighted economic growth in rural communities, the welfare of workers in the state, investments in electricity, clean water and better health care.
They also emphasized a better educated, healthier and more prosperous Edo State.
‘’Nothing is more critical to our state’s future than urging Godwin Obaseki to continue in Government House’’
In 2016, Obaseki defeated Ize-Iyamu. Governor Obaseki is expected to cruise to victory in the September 19 governorship election despite opposition from Adams Oshiomhole, Pastor Ize-Iyamu and some individuals outside Edo State.
‘’We care about results. Obaseki’s standing in the polls is, in fact, formidable’’

				
				PV: 
				54
			Share this on WhatsApp