Share this on WhatsAppThere is rising tension in the southeast since the fracas and associated extra-judicial killings on Sunday at Emene, Enugu State, involving the members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), and security operatives of the State Security Service (SSS), the Police and later the Nigerian Army.
The Uzoko Umunna, an Igbo socio-cultural group on Monday expressed strong condemnation over the perennial extra-judicial killing of unarmed Igbo youths by the Nigerian military and other security operatives.
The Nzuko Umunna in a statement on Monday by the Coordinator, Ngozi Odumuko, and Secretary, Paschal Mbanefo, decried receiving with shock and deep concern the news of the extra-judicial killings at Emene, Enugu State, on Sunday in fracas between IPOB members and operatives of the Nigerian Police, Department of State Service (DSS) and Nigerian Army.
The group lamented the extra-judicial killings which occurred when security operatives were said to have interrupted a peaceful meeting of the Igbo youths.
Nzuko Umunna declared: “We note with grave concern the constant killing of unarmed Igbo youths by security operatives. This is unacceptable and must stop. However, we urge Igbo youths to refrain from retaliatory attacks.
 
“It is noteworthy that extra-judicial killings are a violation of the right to life as enshrined in Section 33 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999; Article 4 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights (ACHPR), and Article 6 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).”
The Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Ahmed Abdurahman, was said to have acknowledged that some youths “escaped with bullet wounds and police have started tracing them.”
 
The Nzuko Umunna demanded Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State to set up a judicial panel of inquiry to conduct a detailed investigation into the incident.
“In particular, we urge the Governor to set up a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to unravel the immediate and remote causes of these wanton killings, including the exact number of victims, with a view to bring the perpetrators to justice,” the group demanded.
 
The Nzuko Umunna further demanded the South East Governors Forum (SEGF) and the South East Joint Security Committee to establish a regional security network towards strengthening the security of lives and property.
 
The Nzuko Umunna also demanded the Chief Judge of Enugu State, Hon. Justice Priscilla Emehelu, to order a coroner’s inquest on the extra-judicial killings in the state.
However, the DSS had in a statement on Sunday disclosed that IPOB members attacked the patrol team of the Service, killing two operatives.
The mixed reactions on the incident have continued to generate heightening tension in the southwest.
Share this on WhatsApp