Dear Diezani,

I hail thee ma.

Former Minister of Petroleum Resources.

Thou art beautiful and smart.

But thou should not forget in a hurry that you are currently being investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, for alleged fraud running into billions of dollars.

That you have been living in the United Kingdom since 2015 and reportedly appointed as a Commissioner for Trade and Investment by Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit of the Commonwealth of Dominica is why Nigeria hasn’t been able to get you to answer to the accusations.

That diplomatic passport is what is shading you from prosecution.

Now that you have turned motivational speaker via an event organised by the Ijaw National Development Group. You end up confusing us.

In the videl posted on Twitter by blogger, Jackson Ude, you made the following speech:

***

 “The ones that have swag, the Yahoo Yahoo boys as my son would say; these in short, are the role models they are looking at. These are the ones that reinforce negative societal norms and values. This is a travesty of an unfolding tragedy for us.

Why have I spent time talking about fatherless homes and the impact it has on our children? The truth of the matter is that an irresponsible boy tends to become an irresponsible man and it is therefore a vicious cycle. If you plant yam, you cannot harvest plantain.

There are no shortcuts to working your way up the ladder of life. Progressing in life, in work and relationships – marital or otherwise – is always dependent on consistent effort and hard work.

As we create more responsible young men, we will generate more responsible fathers which will in turn engender a more sustainable society and build a greater nation of successful Ijaw men and women.”

***

There.

Well. I just want you to know that these Yahoo Yahoo boys you talk about are actually looking upto you.

You are their role model.

If they place the items recovered in your house side by side with the items the FBI got from Hush Puppi, we may not be able to differentiate the value.

So mama calm down.

Off your mic.

Give the mic and script to…

To…

Hmmm, which woman still living can we even say is a saint and a true leader not wrapped by corruption?

Any?

I can’t think of any?

Jesus!

Is it this bad?

No woman in the current administration or past administration comes to mind?

Well…maybe ‘Madam Due Process’ — Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.

Well I think I need to off my mic at this juncture!

Thank you.

Your Yahoo spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: But if not APC and the sudden change… Diezani would have been a Governor of a state by now.