Some notable supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari, as well as  supporters of the national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), at the weekend, scolded the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and others for attacking Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on perceived ‘sin’ committed while he was a member of the APC. National Daily monitored the debate on a social media platform.
The Buharists and APC supporters expressed discomfort over attack on Governor Obaseki by Tinubu, Oshiomhole, Kano State governor, Umar Ganduje, AGF Abubakar Malami, and others for actions he took while he was a member of the APC which they failed to realize then were wrong and illegal; and thus, they were silent over the governor’s actions.  They are asking the question – why is it now that Governor Obaseki decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and is contesting against APC and its unpopular candidate that they realized the actions were illegal and threat to democracy?
A notable Buharist and ardent APC supporter took to the social media platform to open the debate. He declared: “the ‘sin’ Tinubu et al are accusing Obaseki of was committed while the governor was in APC. Why didn’t they raise the issue then?”
Some others simply noted that those APC leaders attacking the Edo State governor on the State House of Assembly crisis, which has become the major ‘sin’ of Governor Obaseki as Tinubu noted in his statement, beside other APC leaders and governors, are simply displaying acts of hypocrisy. They cautioned the Edo people to beware of hypocrites and resist distractions in choosing their next governor.
However, some other APC supporters recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari made attempts to intervene, but the Edo governor did not yield to the counsel. Some other also recalled the intervention of the House of Representatives which the governor also resisted.
The Buharists and APC supporters, however, countered their argument that Tinubu never intervened when the going was good with Obaseki only to declare war on the Edo governor now that they are in opposite camps. They demanded evidence or proof of Tinubu’s intervention then to establish his statesmanship or leader of all.
They further argued that Oshiomhole has been the fulcrum point of the political crisis in Edo State, causing divisions in the state party and the state legislature, and, therefore, lacks the credibility to criticize the Edo governor in a crisis himself is a principal actor.
They, therefore, advocated that the APC leaders who were silent on the controversies in the Edo APC or the Assembly controversies when Governor Obaseki was still in APC lack the credibility to attack  the governor now that he is in the PDP.  They maintained that “something cannot be right when it is in your favour and wrong when you are at the receiving end.”