The ousted national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, on Monday encountered seeming disgrace in Esan Land, Edo State, during the governorship election campaign for the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu in Uromi. The embattled former Governor of Edo State, perhaps, being conscious of the public opprobrium awaiting him in the state because of his legacy, changed his campaign strategy from dancing at campaign venues to kneeling to beg for forgiveness. Oshiomhole within his reasoning imposed the burden of sin upon himself for which he has continually been kneeling and begging for forgiveness, most times attempting to beguile Edo leaders and stakeholder into believing that incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki is the problem of the state.
Meanwhile, Oshiomhole appeared to have led the APC candidate, Ize-Iyamu, into a hypothetical electioneering misfortune at the palace of the Enogie of Igueben on Monday. National Daily learnt that other traditional rulers were invited by the Enogie of Igueben where the APC leaders coordinating Ize-Iyamu’s governorship campaign were hosted.
A PDP stakeholder in Edo State, Andrew Emwata, on AIT morning programme on Tuesday monitored by National Daily from Lagos, said that most traditional rulers did not receive Oshiomhole with open hands. He said that at the opening session of the meeting with traditional rulers, journalists who accompanied the APC campaign team were ordered to go out. According to Emwata, it was at the time that journalists were sent out that Oshiomhole knelt before the traditional rulers begging for forgiveness. Unfortunately, that section of the meeting was recorded by a participant at the meeting, and the video later leaked where Oshiomhole knelt before the traditional rulers.
Emwata recalled that Oshiomhole dethroned the Enogie of Uromi when he was Governor of Edo State. He added that the former Edo governor transferred his aggression of having political dispute with Chief Tony Anenih to dethrone the Enogie of Uromi, noting that he has at last come back to the royal father on his knees. Barrister Emwata said that Governor Obaseki of Edo State later intervened and reinstated the Enogie of Uromi. Emwata alleged that Oshiomhole was later walked out of the meeting with the traditional rulers.
This was, however, refuted by a chieftain of the APC, Dan Osa-Ogbegie, who said that the traditional rulers prayed for the APC candidate, Ize-Iyamu at the meeting.
Emwata discounted Osa-Ogegie, saying that the APC governorship candidate was rejected in Edo Central, which he insisted has been a stronghold of the PDP since 1999. Emwata also said that the Enogie of Uromi at the meeting of traditional rulers with the APC leaders in Igueben, banned Oshiomhole and the APC campaign team from visiting his palace in Uromi. Emwata was of the view that Oshiomhole is suffering political karma, adding that APC has been rejected in Edo Central.