As the APC and the PDP rev up their campaign machines in the run-up to the September 19 guber election, candidate and Gov Godwin Obaseki appears jinxed with loyalists ratting on him when he needs them the most.
More associates just dumped the governor in addition to no fewer than 42, including commissioners, campaign director, board members, who earlier defected to the APC largely believed to be the Adams Oshiomhole camp.
While the earlier defectors had the niceties of couching their resignation in mild, say-nothing letters, the latest party hoppers are not mincing their words.
A senior special assistant from Urhonigbe South ward 8, Faith Obasuyi, who defected at the early hours on Friday, did so with a vengeance.
She said Obaseki is leading the state to the middle of nowhere with his approach to women development.
‘I’m, therefore, not persuaded that the recent activities of the Gov Obaseki administration can lead me to achieving these interest especially when the governor has now abandoned the APC on whose back he rode to power,” said Obasuyi.
“This decision is borne out of my desire to join forces with our great party, the APC to ensure the emergence of a true Orhionmwon man as governor come September 19th, 2020.”
The vice-chairman of Orhionmwon Local Government Area, Hon Christian Iweka, has also dumped the PDP.
Poaching members of the Obaseki camp looks like a good strategy for the Oshiomhole camp.
No fewer than four PDP lawmakers loyal to Obaseki have switched to the Ize-Iyamu side, tipping the scale against the governor in the state house of assembly.
The governor, a political upstart, is up against his former godfather and skillful fighter, according to PDP’s commentator Femi Fani-Kayode. That makes it more likely, some analysts say, for the PDP candidate to get worn out before the election.
Obaseki, too, is flexing the incumbent muscle by shutting down the legislative arm—for fear of impeachment–among his other offensive tackles.
Many political observers have warned the amount of energy going into each party’s preparation could eventually trigger political violence.