Share this on WhatsApp 
The resort to grassroots campaign in wards across Edo State appears to be adding to rising profile of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election.
The Head of Media and Publicity of the APC Campaign Council for the Edo Election, Prince John Mayaki, in a statement in Benin City on Thursday, disclosed that Pastor Ize-Iyamu has again been honored with another title in Ora, Owan West Local Government Council, where he was named the ‘Oyakhire of Ora clan’.
Mayaki said that the Okpojenaga of Ora, Joshua Akhikero, conferred the honorary title on Ize-Iyamu when the APC candidate visited his Palace on Thursday in continuation of his ward-to-ward campaign across Edo State.
According to Mayaki, the Oyakhire title, meaning the one who has come to wipe our tears, was indicative of the acceptance of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu in the Local Government and the hope that his administration will erase the pains and failures of the incumbent government in the state.
The APC Campaign Council Head of Media and Publicity added that the Okpojenaga of Ora explained the responsibility associated with  the title  when he hinned that he conferred the title on Pastor Ize-Iyamu because of his demonstrated competence and ability to solve problems.
The traditional ruler had clarified that the title is honorary because the people of Ora are aware of Ize-Iyamu’s status as an ordained Pastor; noting that he will not confer on him a traditional title that contradicts his religious belief.
The Okpojenaga of Ora, Joshua Akhikero, stated: “We know that you are a Christian and we cannot give you a title that will make you start serving idols.
“This title is honorary, and we gave it to you because we know you are a man who wipes away the tears of people.”
Ize-Iyamu, accompanied by his running mate, Mallam Gani Audu, and APC leaders, on the ward campaign trip expressed gratitude to the Ora clan for the honor. He noted that although he came to solicit for votes, the reception and acceptance he got exceeded his expectation.
Izd-Iyamu promised to live up to the title conferred on him as the wiper of tears and solver of problems by using the instrument of state to eradicate poverty, provide infrastructure, and create jobs for youths across the three senatorial districts of the state if he is supported to become the next Governor of the State.
Ize-Iyamu also promised to bring development to the council by revamping and building new infrastructure to boost commerce and improve security in partnership with the traditional institutions.
At the venue of the campaign rally in the locality, he promised to build a standard police station in the community and support local vigilante groups to ward off kidnappers and strengthen intelligence gathering in the combat of crime so that businesses and banks that deserted the community over insecurity would return.
Mayaki further disclosed that Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, APC candidate, had earlier visited the palace of the Onotare of Ozalla, Owan West, where he was also warmly received and offered royal blessings.

				
				PV: 
				10
			Share this on WhatsApp