Her Excellency Betsy Obaseki, First Lady of Edo State  flanked by members of ANNEWATT, a coalition of Tricycle Riders and Motor Cycle riders association and members of her entourage

        
 


Share this on WhatsApp
Urges voters to ignore those boasting with federal might
Says the world is watching Edo election


Wife of the Governor of Edo State, Her Excellency Betsy Obaseki, has urged residents of the state to be ready to exercise their franchise and not be intimidated by those who are boasting that they will use federal might to impose an unpopular candidate on them.
The Edo State First Lady gave the assurance on Thursday in Benin City, the state capital, when leaders of tricycle drivers and motorcycle riders in the three senatorial districts of the state paid her a courtesy call at the Edo State Government House.
According to her, “President Muhammadu Buhari will not be party to illegality as he is a law-abiding citizen, who loves the people and will not put the interest of a few lawless individuals above that of the majority.
“We must know that when we go out to cast our ballot on the day of election, we are determining our future and when we do not come out to vote to influence the decision of who rules over our lives, we are also determining our future, whether it will be good or bad.
“Nobody can impose somebody on you. Let nobody intimidate you with federal might. We have a law-abiding, peace-loving president who will not allow anarchy. He loves his country, Nigeria, more than anything and he wants progress for his country. He is not like the crazy lot who don’t care about anything else but themselves and are ready to destroy anything and everything in order to get what they want. Our president is not like that.”
Earlier, the leaders of the tricycle riders’ unions, led by Dr. Omorodion commended the transformation in the state, particularly as it concerns the welfare of the citizens and the eradication of thuggery in the commercial transportation sub-sector.
“We are here to endorse the governor for a second term in office. We are very much pleased with what we are witnessing now in Edo state. It’s unlike before when we did not have freedom of movement, we did not have freedom of speech. Somebody will wake up overnight and say ‘this road today you won’t pass it’ and when you try it, you know what will happen to you; but today those are bygone. We highly appreciate the governor for everything he has done for us,” Omorodion said.


Share this on WhatsApp