Share this on WhatsApp 
At the Wards 2 and 3 electioneering campaign in Edo Central for the September 19 governorship election in the state,   Senator Clifford Ordia declared that incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki has done so well in his first term, and therefore, deserves re-election for second term on merit. The senator stated that people in Wards 2 and 3 of Edo Central can acknowledge that Edo State has made remarkable progress under the administration of Governor Obaseki. He added that the incumbent Governor Obaseki has eliminated and buried every vestige of marginalization of Esan, giving the district its rightful place in the governance of Edo State.
Furthermore, at Wards 1 and 4 in Ibore,
Hon. Theophilus Okoh, assured the incumbent Governor and the party’s  campaign team that PDP’s victory in the constituency is as certain as the midway sun. “We have never lost these wards, and now the winning will be total because we now have the few of our people who were formerly in APC joining forces with PDP to ensure resounding victory for the Governor at the polls,” the lawmaker declared.
Incumbent Governor Obaseki gave the promise to extend Obore road to Uwessan, disclosing his determination to link all the local communities with the major cities in Edo State through road construction to enhance socio-economic development of the state.
At Wards 7 and 8 in Ewu, receiving the PDP campaign train in his Palace, His Royal Highness Razaki Y .I Ojeifo III, commended the Governor for supporting one of his subjects to become the Local Government Council Chairman, in addition to several other infrastructural developments sited in his Kingdom.
Incumbent Governor Obaseki made a commitment to a blueprint of pragmatic 30 years development plan for the rapid development of Edo State. The governor appealed to the royal father to assist the government in providing land for the development of a new city in Ewu to attract more development to the constituency.
Governor Obaseki promised to revive Ewu flour mill before the end of first quarter of 2021 after his reelection.
The traditional ruler further commended Senator Clifford Ordia for encouraging development in Esan land, which further  complemented Governor Obaseki’s commitment to taking development to the grassroots.
Share this on WhatsApp