Jadon Sancho’s move to Old Trafford has dominated the transfer speculations lately with both United and Dortmund miles apart with the valuation of the England sensation.
United have appeared unwilling to meet the Bundesliga giant’s £108million valuation of their prolific winger due to the present financial climate as occasioned by the corona virus pandemic.
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that Dortmund have reportedly issued United until August 10 as deadline to get the deal over the line and it has been reported that Jadon Sancho is back in the UK and was snapped at a house party on Sunday night.
The sight of Sancho in UK especially in the company of two United fans, the rap duo Krept and Konan partying together has delighted the Red Devils supporters across the world.
It is understood that Sancho is currently enjoying a break from football, as speculation surrounding his future continues to circulate with Dortmund having a series of friendlies on the horizon ahead of the 2020/21 season.
The rap duo Krept and Konan are based in London, but are strong United supporters who have previously partied with some Red Devils stars including Marcus Rashford and Jesse Lingard.
Sancho’s arrived back home as it was reported he is part of a WhatsApp group containing first team Manchester United players.
“Manchester United are comfortable at this moment in time that they’re not in any competition for the signature of Jadon Sancho,” the Transfer Window Podcast reported
“No other club has expressed the same level of interest and they’re also very confident the player wants to come to Old Trafford.
“He has been in constant touch with England international colleagues who currently play for Manchester United. It’s even believed he’s on a WhatsApp group with some of the Man United players as well.”
Sancho being snapped with the pair has sparked much excitement among United fans, with many taking to Twitter to share the images.
However, National Daily further learnt from a recent report that Dortmund are readying a fresh improved package for their hitman whose contract expires in 2022 to avoid losing on the cheap next season.