A delegation of Federal Character  Commission(FCC) led by Hon. AbdulWasiu  Bawallah, has stated its resolve to tackle the imbalance that bedevilled the federal quota occupied by Lagos State indigenes in time past.
The leader of the delegation according to a statement by the Public Affairs Unit Officer Mrs Omolola M. Alli-Balogun, made this assertion while on a working visit to the Lagos State House of Assembly Service Commission (LAHASCOM).
 
Bawallah said the visit was to enlighten the Commission on the essence of the Federal Character Commission and to reintroduce its functions to government institutions and the general public.
“The essence of the visit is to shed light on the imbalance in Federal quota occupied by Lagosians”
He further stated that the undue marginalisation in the number of Lagos indigenes in Federal establishments has become a thing of concern as the sole purpose of the Commission is to make sure there is fairness in the implementation of the quota system as stipulated by the Nigerian constitution in which Lagos State representation is below its designated quota.
He however explained that the Commission’s mandate is to foster equity in public positions in the Federal, State and Local Government as well as equally balance social amenities and infrastructural facilities.
He stated that from the current data collated, it has been observed that Lagos State indigenes occupy 11% out of over 10,000 positions in over 120 Federal establishments in the State.
He therefore  informed the meeting that the FCC is charged to make sure the imbalance is reversed with a view to creating equal opportunities in appointments, social benefits and infrastructural development across all senatorial districts of the State.
In response, the Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Service Commission, Chief Olawale Mogaji acknowledged the readiness of FCC to correct the lopsided appointments and other areas of developments.
He indicated that he and Bawallah have the same ideology and passion for the State and its indigenes.
“When I heard of your appointment, I knew that better days have come for Lagosians to get their rightfully deserved representation in Federal Parastatals.”
Bawallah while thanking the Assembly Commission for their time and positive input, he further stated that the collaboration and engagement with the Lagos Assembly Commission is very important in order to foster peaceful co-existence between indigenes and non-indigenes.
Also present at the meeting were Otunba Richard Akin Osungboye, Commissioner I; Dr Bode Tawak, Commissioner II; Hon. Akeem Bello, Commissioner III; Bose Lambo, Secretary to the Commission and Management staff.