Share this on WhatsApp 
Major stakeholders among who were former Ministers, Commissioners, Lawmakers and other stalwarts of the party shunned the meeting presided over by former governor of Oyo state, Christopher Alao-Akala who is the Chairman of the reconciliation committee of the party in Oyo state.
Recalls that Alao-Akala in a bid to reconcile the aggrieved members at the weekend called a peace meeting in order to settle all the crisis in the party.
Major party stalwarts who distanced themselves from Alao-Akala’s peace meeting included; Minister for Youth and Sports, Mr. Sunday Dare, immediate past Deputy Governor, Moses Alake-Adeyemo, immediate past Minister of Communications, Barr. Adebayo Shittu, and a former Chief of Staff to late Ajimobi, Professor Adeolu Akande.
Others are; former Deputy Governor to former Governor Lamidi Adesina, Barrister Iyiola Oladokun, Hon. Yunus Akintunde, Fatai Ibikunle, Bayo Adewusi, Sen. Adesoji Akanbi, Sen. Ayo Adeseun.
Asiwaju Rotimi Ajanaku, Hon. Dapo Lam-Adesina, Abiodun Olasupo, Hon. Taiwo Michael Akintola, Hon. Sunbo Olugbemi, Hon. Sunday Adepoju, Akeem Agbaje, Ayodeji Kareem, Isiaka Alimi, Ajiboye Omodewu, Goke Oyetunji and other prominent members of the party were also absent.
One of the aggrieved members, Rotimi Ajanaku said that he was surprised that he was not invited to the meeting, noting that he had no knowledge of any reconciliation meeting until he heard it in the news.
Ajanaku who spoke on Monday through his media aide, Mr. Adebowale Adeoye, said that he was surprised that the reconciliation committee could sideline him and other stalwarts of the party.
“Ajanaku was never invited to the meeting by the reconciliation committee. The only meeting he was invited to was the one called by the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare at the weekend.
“Dare said that the meeting was called towards strengthening our party in Oyo State. But unfortunately, after contacting some stakeholders, and he (Ajanaku) discovered that some strong stakeholders were not invited and it was not called by reconciliation committee, then he decided not to attend the Friday meeting.
“The absence of the key stakeholders at the meeting showed that APC is still in crisis. Ajanaku and other genuine APC stalwarts are ready for genuine reconciliation and not partial reconciliation where some members would be shut or not invited”.

				
				PV: 
				20
			Share this on WhatsApp