The superfoods you are about to see are full of everything you need to improve the well-being of your heart. Studies show that you can prevent cardiovascular disease with a good diet, so let us get to it!
Oranges
Full of fiber, vitamin C, potassium, nutrients, and pectin, it can do wonders for your heart. On top of that, it will help absorb the cholesterol you eat, lower blood pressure, flush out sodium and neutralize proteins.
Garlic
Garlic is a superfood that will do amazing things for your heart. It is present in many recipes, which is a good thing since it lowers blood pressure and brings down arterial plaque. It also lowers blood vessel-constricting enzymes.
Lentils
Eating a diet rich in legumes will help bring down your risk for heart disease or stroke. Lentils make for a great source of potassium, magnesium, and protein. This means that you can expect to see lower blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and risk for plaque formation.
Almonds
Studies show that it can help improve intelligence and memory as well as lower risk for diabetes and heart disease. Regularly eating a handful of almonds can bring down cholesterol. It will also help absorb harmful LDL and lower risk for cardiovascular disease.
Pomegranates
According to studies, it is great at preventing prostate cancer, diabetes, stroke, and Alzheimer’s. On top of that, it will keep your skin, joints, teeth, and liver healthy as well.
Blueberries
Studies show that three servings of the fruit or berry will lower cholesterol buildup, blood pressure, and risk for plaque buildup. Aside from that, this fruit is known to eliminate certain causes of cancer and bring down the risk for heart disease.
Turmeric
You should know that turmeric is the secret to a great curry. It has curcumin, an active compound that blocks cardiac hypertrophy or heart enlargement. It also prevents dysfunctional blood vessels, obesity, high blood pressure, and heart disease.
Apples
Apples help bring down blood pressure and the risk for heart disease. We also love the fact that there seem to be endless varieties. They say that an apple a day keeps the doctor away, so you know what to do!
Avocados
Not only is it tasty and versatile, but it is also full of potassium, antioxidants, and monounsaturated fats. It will bring down your cholesterol and the risk for heart disease. Trust us, it will boost your heart health.
Eggplant
Eggplants are amazing no matter how you choose to cook them. On top of this, they are full of minerals, flavonoids, antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals. They will also improve circulation, lower cholesterol, prevent blood clots, and reduce the risk for heart disease. They are also good for the brain and cell health.
Carrots
Carrots are tasty and crunchy, so start eating more of this! It is a great way to improve your vision, but we already know this. Aside from that, it helps reduce heart disease, fight free radicals, and promote the nervous and skeletal systems.