The unexpected is beginning to happen between the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and his ‘principal sponsor’, Adams Oshiomhole, the ousted APC national chairman. Many party members were surprised to notice the two principal APC actors getting involved in early loggerhead following the shameful rejection of the APC candidate in Edo Central Senatorial District on Monday because of the ill actions and maltreatment of the zone by Oshiomhole when he was Governor of Edo State.
National Daily gathered that the APC governorship candidate, Ize-Iyamu, was sent out of the palace of the Enojie of Igueben, His Royal Highness, Ehizojie Eluojierior II, when APC leaders visited the traditional ruler who had earlier invited other royal fathers in the district.
A participant at the disgraceful meeting disclosed that the APC candidate accompanied by the former Edo governor,  Oshiomhole, were ordered to leave Esan land by the traditional rulers. They scolded Oshiomhole who in his political fury, abandoned the Edo Central in the eight years of being governor of the state.
The traditional rulers further recalled the dethronement of the Enojie of Uromi, His Royal Highness, Anselm Aidenojie 11, by Oshiomhole, who was later reinstated by Governor Godwin Obaseki.
More so, Oshiomhole was accused of taking the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly away from Edo Central. Barrister Andrew Emwata had on Kakaki programme on the AIT on Tuesday monitored by National Daily from Lagos, highlighted that when Edo South takes the governor, Edo North takes the deputy governor, then, the Speaker of the State Assembly is zoned to Edo Central. He said that Oshiomhole subverted the power sharing scheme, punishing Edo Central. This, Emwata said, was reversed by Governor Obaseki who zoned the Speaker of the House to Edo Central.
Emwata further said that because Oshiomhole suddenly realized that APC is going for the governorship election campaign in Edo Central, he quickly manipulated the illegal appointment of Speaker of the House from Edo Central, and attempting to dethrone the legal Speaker of the House from Edo Central installed under the leadership of Obaseki. According to Emwata, Ize-Iyamu has denied that the illegal inauguration of the renegade 14 APC lawmakers was not done at his residence.
Emwata had earlier said that Oshiomhole, Ize-Iyamu and other APC members were walked out of the palace of the Enogie of Igueben.
The earlier palace source who observed the humiliation of the APC candidate at the meeting revealed that Ize-Iyanu turned to blame Oshiomhole for his misdeeds that are causing them election misfortunes across the state. He added that the ousted APC national chairman responded, telling him to be courageous to take responsibility for his actions.
The palace source was cited to have highlighted:  “The two unwanted visitors engaged in hot exchange of unpleasant words in Igueben after they were told to leave Esan land by the monarchs who had converged on Igueben for the cold reception.
“In the ensuing hot exchange of words, Ize-Iyamu blamed Oshiomhole for his woes in Esan land and other parts of Edo State where they have faced similar rejection since the party commenced campaigns.
“We overheard Oshiomhole saying he couldn’t be blamed for all Ize-Iyamu’s problems. The former APC national chairman said there can be no smoke without fire and told the governorship candidate to be courageous enough to take responsibility for some of his past actions.”