Brain
        
 


Share this on WhatsAppYou do a few things you know you shouldn’t — we all do. But some of those bad habits can take a toll on your brain.
Everywhere you look, books, blogs, websites and TV shows bombard us with tips on how to live, breathe, exercise or eat healthy. Your body’s health is well taken care of, but what about your brain?
Many of us fall into a trap of habits every day that are bad for our brain. We have identified some habits that you should not pick up if your brain is near and dear to you.

Skipping breakfast

Due to a fast paced lifestyle, most of us avoid or end up skipping breakfast to save some time. This leads to low sugar supply and poor nutrient supply to the brain. The brain needs pure glucose to function. Poor nutrition can have long term harmful effects on the brain like degeneration of the brain cells.

Lack of sleep

Sleep deprivation hinders the brain’s ability to perform normally. If you have ever lost your way home or forgotten your keys somewhere and cannot recollect where, then lack of sleep has probably been behind this temporary memory loss.
So make sure you get your daily dose of 7 hours of beauty, as well brain-friendly sleep.

Eating sugary foods

High consumption of refined sugar is known to destroy the ability of the brain and body to absorb proteins and nutrients. Poor nutrition will lead to malnourishment and brain disorders like poor memory, learning disorders, hyperactivity and depression.

Smoking

This is probably one of the most harmful habits that we indulge in, as smoking not only causes lung diseases or heart diseases, it also leads to shrinkage of multiple cells in the brain and can lead to problems like dementia, Alzheimer’s and maybe even death.

Covering the head while sleeping

Sleeping with the head covered leads to increase in concentration of carbon dioxide and it further reduces the oxygen concentration in the blood. If the oxygen supply is poor, the brain functioning capacity reduces. You may feel suffocated and sleep deprived leading to fatigue and drowsiness.

Consuming alcohol

 
The greater the percentage of alcohol, the higher is the number of cells that die in the brain. Alcohol leads to chemical imbalances when continued for longer durations and large quantities.

Playing loud music with earphones or headphones

Listening to music at a very high volume with your earphones or headphones can result in some brain problems such as loss of memory and damage to your brain tissue in the coming future.
This is because the brain is the one, which takes efforts to comprehend what is being said around you.
Share this on WhatsApp