Share this on WhatsAppThe Benin Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (BENCCIMA) has joined other domestic and international institutions in exposing the falsehood propaganda of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the electioneering campaign for the governorship election in Edo State.  The World Bank development team in the Niger Delta had a fortnight ago demystified the propaganda of the former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and other APC leaders, misleading the people of Edo State on the visible achievements of incumbent Governor Goodwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19 election. The international financial institution acknowledged and commended Governor Obaseki for his transparency in the governance of Edo State, as well as his achievement in job creation for the youths.
Moreover, President Muhammadu Buhari had added to the breakdown of the APC propaganda machine in the Edo State campaign when a federal government delegation led by a Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs visited Edo State for inspection of the Modular Refinery which Oshiomhole after his visit to President Buhari the previous Monday said does not exist. He had said that Obaseki spent his time signing memorandum of understanding on the modular refinery which is not on ground.
Meanwhile, the Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki of Edo State on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, on  Monday commended the Benin Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (BENCCIMA) for debunking the false endorsement claim  of the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.
Osagie in Benin city encouraged “other groups whose names have been used by the APC to conjure endorsements that were never given, in the party’s desperate bid to market and rebrand their gubernatorial candidate who is heavily burdened with credibility crisis, to speak up.”
The S.A. Media maintained: “By challenging APC’s fabricated endorsement, BENCCIMA has defended its rule book and its set objectives, and has sent a strong message to identity thieves like the APC, that you cannot fool the people all the time.
“APC only tendered the apology because BENCCIMA took the party up; there are several other groups, whose corporate identities and names, have been used by the APC, without permission and without any endorsement, to market their hard-to-sell gubernatorial candidate.”
Osagie emphasised the need for people to be distrustful of endorsement claims by the APC campaign office.
Share this on WhatsApp