After submitting its prelim report to President Muhammadu Buhari on the allegations against the EFCC former boss Ibrahim Magu, the Justice Ayo Salami panel continues its inquiry in more ways that reinforce the belief it will disappoint Nigerians expecting to see justice.
The way it conducted its Wednesday hearing could speak no louder.
A petitioner, Donald Wokoma of Damijay Integrated Services Ltd, brought series of conversation he recorded with his lawyer he alleged was compromised by certain EFCC operatives known as Magu Boys.
According to the audio record whose account Economic Confidential published, the Magu Boys demanded N75m to unfreeze Damijay’s account frozen in 2018, despite a court order unfreezing it. The deal was first brokered with his lawyer Victor Giwa, and the EFCC collaborators gave him three accounts to deposit the money in.
An officer in the EFCC legal department was equally roped in.
In the long run, the Boys demanded 40 percent of the total amount (N250m) and the deal got punctured. But the EFCC wouldn’t let up, according to the 27-minute audio record.
“On the 9th of July, 2020, Mr. Mohammed Goje of EFCC called me to come to their office the next day being 10th July, 2020 (Friday),” said Wokoma.
“I honoured the invitation and stayed for long hours only for me to be informed by him (around 5: 09pm after I had left) that I have been charged to Court by sms and that I was to appear before the F.C.T. High Court sitting at Lugbe by 8:30 am on Monday, 13th July, 2020 to be with a copy of the charge and arraigned simultaneously.”
It turned out there was an earlier charge dated the 3rd day of January, 2019 and filed on the 4th day of January, 2019 signed by one Asha A. Habib from the Legal & Prosecution Department of the EFCC.
At this point, Wokoma got another lawyer, Johnmary Jideobi, who petitioned the AGF Abubakar Malami Aug 6.
The businessman said the decision hurt his former lawyer Giwa who told his client he shouldn’t have gone as far as the AGF office, especially now that the EFCC is in troubled water.
Giwa, allegedly, confided in his client the Magu Boys had warned him not to get involved, and to keep mum till the storm will be over. They assured him of bouncing back to deal with Wokoma.
Wokoma, Giwa, Jideobi and another lawyer earlier consulted, Fatima Hassan, who was alleged to have paid Magu himself N75m of the N250m, were before the panel on Wednesday.
However, Giwa and Hassan were giving there testimonies when they were cut short, and whisked away by the police.
But Hassan was able to put out some words—for Magu.
She denied paying the suspended EFCC boss any money, adding she’s not aware of ‘Magu Boys’ and had never discussed transaction with them.
Hassan also said had never met Magu apart from reading about him in newspapers and watching him on television.
Magu, detained for 10 days in July, was served the paper inform hi of the panel’s terms of reference 33 days after its sitting.
He and his lawyers still claim the panel has never told him what they are probing. It won’t accept his defence of allegations he got in the media and attributed to the AGF and other witnesses—those the commission is prosecuting.