Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State had on Thursday ordered punitive action on some traditional rulers in the state in a manner that many translate to imply unnecessary disaffection with President Muhammadu Buhari. The governor in his provocation ordered the punishment of 12 traditional rulers in Anambra State, temporarily dethroning them, for a period of one year in the first instance, after they visited the President at the State House, Abuja. The sanction, according to the Anambra State government retroactively took effect from Tuesday, August 11, 2020.
The Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Affairs in Anambra State, Greg Obi, had in a statement on Thursday explained that the sanctioned traditional rulers travelled out of Anambra State without the approval of the state government; adding that they were punished for misconduct.
The commissioner defended that punishment of the 12 traditional rulers on the claim that Governor Obiano was enforcing the Anambra Traditional Rulers Law of 1981.
Greg Obi identified that traditional rulers to include His Royal Highness, Alex Edozieuno,  Mkpunando; HRH Mark-Anthony Okonkwo of Alor; Chukuwma Orji of Ezinifite; G.B.C Mbakwe of Abacha; Chijioke Nwankwo of Nawfa and Nkeli Nelly of Igbarim; Anthony Onyekwere of Owelle; A. N. Onwuneme of Ikenga; Ikechukwu Chidubem of Umumbo; S. O. Uche of Ezira; Emeka Ilouno of Ifitedunu and Peter Ikegbunem Udoji of Eziagulu.
The commissioner had declared: “During the sanction period, you are required to stop holding yourselves out as traditional rulers and to cease from discharging traditional rulers’ functions in your communities or elsewhere in the state and beyond.
“This sanction may be lifted at the end of one year or renewed or upgraded in the intervening period depending on government’s review of your conduct.
“By this sanction, membership of Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council is revoked, furthermore any appointment in other government committees is hereby rescinded.”
However, Prince Engr Arthur Eze, who led the traditional rulers to the State House, Abuja, on courtesy visit to President Buhari, berated Governor Obiano for his action. Arthur Eze in an electronic media interaction monitored by National Daily from Lagos blasted Governor Obiano for failure to provide good governance and improve the welfare and standard of living of the people of Anambra State. Arthur Eze lamented that in Anambra State, there are people who cannot get food to eat, noting that some others cannot afford school fees for their children, as well as those who lack appropriate accommodation.
The prominent businessman, thereafter, gave a special gift of brand-new Lexus Jeep – LX570 to each of the 12 Anambra traditional rulers punished by Governor Obiano because they joined his entourage that visited President Buhari at the State House, Abuja.
It was gathered that Governor Obiano had earlier suspended one traditional ruler in the state whose vacation of office is yet to be reversed.
It is, however, not known if Arthur Eze would be rendering financial assistance to the 12 traditional rulers for the period of their temporary dethronement by the Anambra governor.
Three is no reaction yet from the presidency on the action of the Anambra governor.