Share this on WhatsApp 
The management of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Limited may have surprised members of the two members of the National Assembly who rejected the products of the company for official cars, when the company donated operational vehicles to the Nigerian Police for implementation of community policing in the country.
The Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, DCP Frank Mba, in a statement on Wednesday indicated that the Community Policing efforts of the Nigeria Police Force have continued to receive commendable support from Governments, Corporate Bodies and Private Individuals; adding that the Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, received three operational vehicles from Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Limited donated to the Nigeria Police in support of ongoing efforts at repositioning the Force for optimal performance.
The vehicles according to Mba include, Innoson G12 Series, consisting of the Single Cabin Pick-up Truck MSI, Double Cabin Pick-up Truck MSII and the SUV MSIII. He disclosed that the vehicles were presented to the Nigeria Police by Mr. Jonas Maduabuchukwu Ojukwu on behalf of Chief (Dr) Innocent I. Chukwuma, and the Management of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Limited. He added that the donation was in furtherance of their Corporate Social Responsibility, community support and other efforts directed at making the country peaceful, safe, and secure.
National Daily gathered that the IGP, represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operations, DIG Abdulmajid Ali, expressed his appreciation to Chief Innocent I. Chukwuma, and the Management of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Limited for their kind gesture to the Nigeria Police. He was of the view that with public support of this nature, the Nigeria Police Force will no doubt be able to meet its operational and infrastructural needs in combating crimes and criminality in the country. The IG appealed to other well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies to emulate the gesture of Innoson.
The National Assembly members had rejected Innoson Motors for official vehicles. The federal lawmakers opted for foreign vehicles at higher cost but of similar quality with Innoson Motors.

				
				PV: 
				20
			Share this on WhatsApp