REV PAM CALLS FOR THE UP GRADE OF THE YAKUBU GOWON AIRPORT, JOS. 
Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
The Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission Rev Yakubu Pam, has called for the up grade of the Yakubu Gowon Airport Jos to enable it airlift Plateau pilgrims and other pilgrims from neighbouring States direct from Jos to Israel.  He disclosed this recently while playing host to the Executive Secretary, Plateau State Christian pilgrims welfare Board, Rev. Fr. George Gorap who paid him a congratulatory visit with his management team in his office in Abuja. 
He posited that a situation where by Plateau pilgrims would travel to Abuja to fly to Israel during pilgrimage is not convenient and palatable. He explained that with the number of Pilgrims being sponsored by the government of Plateau State, there is need to fix and up grade the Airport so that Plateau Pilgrims would be airlifted from Jos. He called on the Governor of Plateau State, RT. Hon. Simon Lalong to who is committed to the up grading of the airport to use his good offices to make it possible so that pilgrims would be airlifted from Jos in the next pilgrimage exercise. 
He commended Rev. Fr Gorap for his humility and hardwork. He explained that while serving at the Board in Plateau State, he was able to add value to the system. To this end he stated ” it is my prayer that the example we left behind at the Board will be sustained.” He was sanguine that the next chairman of the Board should be able to continue from where he stopped. Earlier, Rev. Fr Gorap said they were in NCPC to felicitate with Rev Pam on his well deserved appointment. 
He affirmed that Plateau State is very appreciative of Mr President for finding him worthy of the appointment. He described his appointment “as putting a square peg in a square hole” According to him, “I know who you are because of the changes you brought to  bear at the  Board.”He further reiterated that on the table of Christian pilgrimage in Nigeria that Plateau State has a space as the leading state with the highest number of sponsored pilgrims in recent time. 
He said this feat was made possible under the leadership of Rev. Pam as Chairman of the Board. He stressed that the fact that Plateau State is leading, does not presupposes that the state has more resources than other states but according to him, “it is simply because the state has understood what pilgrimage is all about”.