The possible arrival of the England sensation Jadon Sancho to Old Trafford has undoubtedly dominated the transfer speculations lately.


National Daily understands that Manchester United have not hidden their keen admiration for the prolific forward; a development that has prompted Borussia Dortmund to set their self-deadline of August 10, 2020 for the possible transfer of the England international away from Signal Iduna Park.
Meanwhile, reports reaching National Daily from the calculations of the former Norwegian striker and football expert Jan Age Fjortoft suggest that, Ed Woodward is going to let the Jadon Sancho transfer saga drag on all summer – despite being told that the transfer of the forward is off the table with the expiration of August 10, 2020 self-designed deadline by BVB.
It can be recalled that Dortmund chief Michael Zorc came out in the press to rule out a transfer taking place this month, saying: “We are planning with Sancho.
“He’ll play for us next season. The decision is final. I think that answers all of the questions.”
Howbeit, for Fjortoft, the Dortmund star may still join the Red Devils.
Fjortoft told ESPN: “I think the problem for Dortmund is going into the summer they hoped there was going to be a lot of bidders.
“The price tag of €120million was given to him when they thought there would be more clubs in for him. Now there is only Manchester United.
“Manchester United need that kind of player and to get the hottest property in this transfer window will make them look very good.
“Believe me, this Zorc statement, they feel like they want to keep the player.
“Like I have said many times, Sancho has got to confirm this. There is a great dialogue between the player and the club.
“I get the feeling this will drag on for another couple of weeks.”
He added: “I believe Zorc with what he is saying. He is not lying.
“Zorc’s problem is that he said the same things about [Ousmane] Dembele and [Pierre-Emerick] Aubameyang and he got stick for that.
“The big problem today is that they gave him a better contract last summer and they extended that by one year.
“I would wait until they have a Jadon Sancho press conference where he says ‘I can’t wait to play another year with Dortmund’. Then I will believe Zorc.”
It is no doubt the hope of most Red Devils fans that the above tactics Ed Woodward supposedly wants to adopt will yield a successful result as they wish to see Sancho adorn in United jersey next season.