The Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Dr. Salihu Moh’ Lukmam on Tuesday said he should be held accountable for all the comments he made, stressing that he was not a voice for any Governor.
He disclosed this while reacting to the comments of the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole against him.
Speaking with newsmen in Abuja on Tuesday, Lukman said, “I respect Oshimhole, not just as a leader of APC, but as a person. I have had a very good relationship with him and my relationship with him is special. I respect him and I respect every leader of the party.
“The second statement I want to make is that I grew up in a very complex extended family set up and one of the things it has done in terms of my personal make up is that it imposes on me to be accountable at every point in time.
“I account for my ‘offence’. Nobody should transfer my offence to any other leader of the party. That is the reason why I said I don’t think it is a matter that we should belabor. I take responsibility and all that I have said, you all have it. It is written in ink. It is not verbal communication that I can dispute. They are written documents.
He then appealed to party leaders to show some respect for resolving all the challenges facing the party for the sustenance of the party ethics.
“So, it is not a matter of running away from certain issues that I had raised. I talked about the dangers of a single story as espoused by Chimamanda and I did not want the story that is all over the air now around what Comrade Oshiomhole said to be the only or single story. I want people to hear from me. I mean, I respect him and that is it.”
But when asked if the six months period given the Governor Buni led Caretaker Committee would be enough to accomplish its assignment and some of the DG’s recommendations in his letter to the committee, Lukman said he has confidence in the committee to deliver.
“Whether they will have a problem of time? We will cross the bridge when we get there. I think it is better to have that approach than to set out with the mindset that there will be problems, we will continue to be-labour the matter and that will distract them from focusing on getting initiated. That is my position.”