A coalition of CSOs have submitted corruption allegations against AGF Abubakar Malami to President Muhammadu Buhari.
Their letter was titled “Compilation of Corruption Allegations and Abuse of Office”.
It was signed by the Chairman, Civil Society Network Against Corruption, Olanrewaju Suraju, Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, Debo Adeniran, and Co-founder, Say No Campaign, Ezenwa Nwagwu.
They called for a probe of Malami to ensure a full inquiry into his arbitrary withdrawal of corruption charges, cronyism, and unexplained wealth.
The AGF and the suspended EFCC chairman Ibrahim Magu climaxed their war of attrition weeks ago when a secret investigative panel led by retired Jjustice Ayo Salami began probing Magu for corruption.
Many Nigerians believe the probe should cover Malami who etitioned the presidency against Magu–because Malami too, the CSOs belive, has been enmeshed in corrupt practices
“We have listed these corruption cases after painstaking compilation of high profile corruption cases involving the country’s No 1 law officer. The President must act without delay,” the groups said.
According to them, his action has the prospect of determining the future of the anti-corruption campaign in the country.
Among the allegations is that of auctioning of sea vessels holding crude oil seized by the Federal Government, violating Section 31(2) and (4) of the EFCC Act 2004.
The coalition said Malami also authorized the sale of vessels by companies under EFCC prosecution for similar offence of illegal bunkering.
“This action was admitted by the AGF through his media aide pleading presumption of innocence on the part of the accused, in the case being prosecuted by the Federal Government through EFCC,” the letter read.
Others cases include those of the Pension Reform Task Force exchairman AAbdulrasheed Maina, Sen Danjuma Goje, billionaire kidnapper Bala Hamisu,  John Abebe, Mohammed Bello Adoke, Diezani Alison-Madueke and others involved in the Malabu Oil scandal, former Comptroller General of Customs, Mohammed Inde Dikko, and Godsday Orubebe.
The groups said their investigations suggest that Malami allegedly owns assets worth billions, acquired after his appointment.
Those listed were Rayhaan Hotels worth about N500million, located at opposite Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Zaria Road, Kano State; a property worth about N600million located at Ahmadu Bello Way, Nasarawa GRA, Kano; a newly constructed school at the back of Nitel at Gesse Phase 1, Birni Kebbi, Kebbi State, worth about N700million.
Others include a property allegedly built by Malami for his son located at Gesse Phase II in Birni Kebbi worth over N400million; a mansion known as Azbir Arena allegedly built by Malami for his second son; Azbir Arena, an entertainment centre worth over N3billion, with a big plaza and kids playing centre and hotel, all combined in one expansive property.
The coalition said they believe in due process “which is why we have forwarded this petition to your Excellency for investigation and action in order to restore the sanity of the core mandate of your administration to fight corruption which is at the verge of collapse as a result of the alleged abuse of power and office by the incumbent Attorney General and Minster of Justice.”