Share this on WhatsApp



He is leaving!

Or is he?

Leo Messi could be on his way out of a club he has known and played for all his professional career life. And why this is a tough time for Barca fans is the fact that there’s no player in the colors of the club ever attained such legendary status as the Argentine.

Who has 259 unassisted goals. That’s 37% of his total career goals. Impossible. Unimaginable. Unfarthomable. But that is the reality of the most Ballon d’Or decorated player of all time.

FC Barcelona confirmed that it received a bureaufax from Messi asking to accept the clause which would help him terminate his contract. The club says he had until June 10 to terminate the contract and that it is in the hands of the legal services.

Messi’s Wage Package at Barcelona is £60,395,769 that is his basic yearly wages at £988.000 per week. He also earns £9,100,000 per year on image rights. And £13,000,000 a year on possible bonuses plus signing on and loyalty fee (£120,000,000 over 5 years).

Victor Font said, “You know perfectly well that if the Catalans could go to the Stadium, the whole stadium would be chanting: Bartomeu should get out! You haven’t even been able to guard the best in history, a homemade legend!”

BBC said they got sources confirmation that Bartomeu has already offered to resign to keep Messi at the club. The fans have started gathering outside the club offices. Statement soon.

According to sources “if Barcelona insist to keep him and not consider his ‘free transfer clause’ as valid, right now, because it was expired on June, Leo Messi will tell the board that he wants to leave the club. He wants to change. The battle is on”.

Barça board have not met (yet) despite reports elsewhere. They have replied to Messi’s burofax, saying they want him to stay, end his career at Camp Nou plus other persuasive jargons.

Marcelo Bechler (the reporter who was first to break the news that Neymar was going to leave and now Messi) reports that Messi has decided he wants to play for Manchester City. And City is also rumoured to be ready for the deal.

There are many sports neutrals who are of the opinion that Leo Messi should get a glorious send forth party rather than a legal tussle on his exit out of the club he has served so well.

Gary Lineker says, “If Messi is to leave @FCBarcelona by activating a release clause, then I hope the club try to help, not hinder him. He’s been fiercely loyal and their greatest ever player. It would be terribly sad if it finished with a fight between the player and the club.”

One tweeter sees it this was and I agree, “Messi at City is criminal for the Premier League. Virtually kills off the league for 2-3 years. City are going to be untouchable. The new 1-team league like Scotland / Bundesliga. Manchester United should just bring back Ronaldo for that time frame and he’d be ready for Messi v CR7 part two.”







Share this on WhatsApp