Share this on WhatsAppThe Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, at the weekend ridiculed the All Progressives Congress (APC), its governorship candidate in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and the godfather, Adams Oshiomhole, that they have been engulfed by panic over the rising profile of incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki which has been increasing his support base in Edo State. The S.A. Media to the governor was od the view that the  “huge support base of Governor Godwin Obaseki across the three senatorial districts of the state is causing candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and his handlers to hallucinate.” He further berated the APC for the fret that led the party leaders into alleged thumb printing of ballot papers in several locations in Kogi State ahead of the September 19 governorship election in Edo State.
Accordingly, Osagie in a media interaction in Benin City, challenged the APC “to come clean on the allegation of ongoing mass thumb printing of ballot papers by APC members in some hotels in Kogi State.
He maintained: “We are convinced that the candidate of the APC, the party’s leaders and media handlers are suffering from hallucination, given the ease with which they allege things that do not exist. We are also convinced that the growing support base of Governor Obaseki is responsible for the poor health condition of these APC leaders.”
Osagie highlighted: “Two days ago, the APC said they saw a vehicle loaded with arms in Governor Obaseki’s convoy. Yesterday, they said security personnel attached to the governor were involved in shooting.
“Today, Friday, they alleged that the PDP is engaged in arms proliferation. Of course, we know that tomorrow, the APC will say that the PDP is procuring short-range ballistic missiles or jet bombers, and the day after, they will allege that we are procuring nuclear war heads.”
The Governor’s aide therefore, declared: “It takes someone who hallucinates to call a press conference and tell journalists things that exist only in the APC leaders’ heads.
“Edo voters are earnestly waiting for September 19 to come quickly, so that they will hand Governor Obaseki and his running mate, Comrade Philip Shaibu, another four years, to continue the good work they have been doing to enhance the wellbeing of Edo people.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp