Share this on WhatsApp 
National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, Olusegun Bamgbose, has said the Edo governorship election would go down in history as one of the toughest, noting that it would spell doom for the former National chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole if his candidate, Ize-Iyamu fails to win the election.
Acknowledging that the former Governor and some bigwigs of the APC will do everything within their power to win the election, the Lagos-based lawyer told Oshiomhole to start packing his luggage to leave Edo state should the incumbent Governor, Godwin Obaseki win the September 19 election.
According to him, the governorship election is between Oshiomhole and his former political godson, Obaseki, noting that the election will go down in history as the toughest one in the entire history of Edo State considering the big guns and the big wigs involved.
“This is one election that Oshiomhole won’t want to lose. It’s a do or die affair for him. It’s an election that will either make him or mar him for life,” the senior lawyer noted.
“His (Oshiomhole) political career is attached to this volatile election. If he ‘loses’, it will mark the end of his political dynasty. Oshiomhole will certainly not take things for granted.
“Tinubu equally will do anything possible for Obaseki to lose to Pastor Ize Iyamu. The Edo election is no doubt a litmus test for Tinubu’s presidential ambition.
“If the APC Governorship Candidate loses, his Presidential ambition will be jeopardized. On the other hand, Obaseki will not for any reason want to lose the election, as incumbent Governor.
“He will be ready to do anything within his political capacity to put Oshiomhole to big shame. The truth of the matter is that the Edo Election is between Obaseki and Oshiomhole.
“Edo will be hell to him if Ize-Iyamu loses to Obaseki. The die is cast. The battle line is drawn. Who will win is no doubt a one million naira question,” he stated.
 
 
 

				
				PV: 
				32
			Share this on WhatsApp