In the campaign war raging between Edo Gov. Godwin Obaseki and his APC rival Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the side that has something to lose is already bleeding—if that means anything in the final onslaught September 19.
According to a tally by the Daily Post, no fewer than 42 members of the Obaseki government have deserted the administration. These include including two three commissioners, 24 special advisers, three board members, three commission members, six LGA officials, one CoS, one campaign team director, and one chief press secretary.
The PDP insisted nothing ominous is happening, and that Obaseki is having a ball.
“From all indications, it is obvious that there is no strong opposition against Obaseki and he will win convincingly,’ Rivers Gov. Nyesom Wike.
Forty-two associates resigning weeks to an election could alarm a serious candidate elsewhere, though.
At least he might want to know why.
And the reason the Edo governor is losing his political stock amidst the heat of re-election requires no rocket scientist to detect.
His victory, if he wins the election, could be short-termed because the APC is waiting in court to press home Obaseki’s ineligibility by taking advantage of the discrepancies in his credentials submitted to INEC.
The APC screening committee pointed out to disqualify him the primary election. The PDP, however, didn’t care a farthing when he crossed over.
If the Supreme Court decision is any precedent to reckon with, then the PDP candidate’s labour might just be a waste. The Bayelsa experience, very similar, cost the APC a hard won victory recently.
The PDP benefited from the APC calamity then. History is about coming full circle again.
Such failure on the brink of success means a lot to political appointees and jobbers in Nigeria’s party politics. So they will like to hedge their bets having considered how things could go wrong.
Those aides ratting on their boss have not given any reason coherent enough for the Obaseki camp to make amends. Or explain things away.
Those watching events unfolding in the south-south state believe more will soon resign.