Share this on WhatsApp“Way Maker” a contemporary worship song written by Nigerian multiple award-winning gospel singer Osinachi Joseph-Egbu, known as Sinach and released as a single on 30 December 2015, has become a sort of anthem for the people of South Korea, inspiring and bringing hope to the people.
Watch Video:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QSdlAz1Togo
The song which has since topped the US charts for both Christian airplay and church worship during the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic, has been the anthem for demonstrators marching for racial justice, calling out for God as a “way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper, light in the darkness.”
“Way Maker” holds the top spot on the list of Top 100 songs ranked by Christian Copyright Licensing International (CCLI), based on use in churches. In April, the song also claimed two of the top 10 spots on the Billboard Hot Christian Songs when Michael W. Smith and the band Leeland both released popular renditions.
It was the first song in the chart’s history to hit the top 10 twice at the same time. Performances of “Way Maker” by Mandisa and Passion took spots 39 and 40 on the same chart.
According to the data released in May, it has dominated the chart for weeks. Globally, various versions of the song have been streamed over 250 million times life-to-date on YouTube. On Spotify, top versions of the song now account for over 54 million streams life-to-date.
At close to 50 million views, the original video of ‘Way Maker’ is currently the third most-streamed song in the world on YouTube.
The Gospel virtuoso, Sinach, made a come back last December after 4 years to claim the coveted ‘Song of the Year’ at the world most celebrated Gospel Music and Arts Award – LoveWorld International Music and Arts Awards (LIMAA) 2019.
Her song ‘Overflow’ was announced as ‘Song of the Year’ at LIMA Awards 2019. Sinach was crowned ‘Songwriter of the Decade’ at the first edition of LIMA Awards in 2016, making this win in the 4th edition an emotional moment for her.
A senior worship leader at Loveworld Incorporated, Sinach has an overflowing catalogue of 9 studio albums with a very special Worship EP in the works. Her unrecorded songs but written, are in thousands.

				
				PV: 
				30
			Share this on WhatsApp