The revelation by Dr. Obadiah Mailafia of the secret forces behind the Boko Haram terrorism and the wanton killings in Southern Kaduna may have unsettled President Muhammadu Buhari, the Commander-In-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, culminating into the sudden deployment of Special Forces to Southern Kaduna. National Daily gathered that the security squad was endorsed by the Defence Headquarters and detailed to contain the perennial killing of indigenes by Fulani militias in Southern Kaduna, Kaduna State. The Special Forces said to be drawn from the Nigerian Army had arrived Kafanchan, Kaduna State, on Friday awaiting formal deployment to violent locations in the Southern Kaduna.
The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, Samuel Aruwan, had received the security operatives at Sector 7, Headquarters of Operation Safe Haven.
The Commissioner enjoined the troops to take the battle to the bandits towards strengthening the counter war for the restoration of security and safety of the people in Southern Kaduna.
The indigenes of Southern Kaduna have been groaning in pains from the pangs of death inflicted on the rural communities by Fulani militias. Dr. Mailafia had among other accusations, decried that bot the federal government and the Kaduna State have abandoned the people of Southern Kaduna in the spate of perennial killings by armed Fulani militias.
Reports indicated that 21 people were killed, and 28 persons injured when gunmen struck at Kukum Daji Village of Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State on July 19.
Over 100 rural communities have been invaded and occupied by the Fulani militias, chasing out the indigenes to displaced locations.
Over 38 persons were killed in separate attacks on two villages in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State on July 7.
The federal government had issued a statement that the violent incidence in Southern Kaduna were revenge killings by the Fulani against the indigenes. The statement raised suspicion that the government may have deliberately refused to protect the indigenous people because the Fulani were on revenge mission.
However, the federal government sent Special Forces to Kaduna hours after the revelations of Mailafia who was interrogated by the State Security Service (SSS) on Thursday and was released after six hours of interaction.
There are indications that there is no longer any hiding place for the unwillingness of the government to intervene in the killings in Southern Kaduna or protect the lives and property of citizens in the zone.




ReplyReply allForward