Share this on WhatsAppThe candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, at the weekend trailed the grassroots campaign approach of incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State for the September 19 governorship election in the state. The governor, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has adjusted the campaign approach for his re-election to direct interaction with the peoples at the grassroots and has concluded ward-to-ward campaign in Edo Central,  while Ize-Iyamu and APC leaders have been on local government campaign.
However, Ize-Iyamu and APC leaders, including the godfather leading the campaign, Adams Oshiomhole, imitated Governor Obaseki with the commencement of ward-to-ward campaign in Orhionwon Local Council Area on Saturday.
An excited Pastor Ize-Iyamu declared on a social media platform, “we kicked off our ward-to-ward campaign today in my home place,  Orhionwon Local  Council Area, with a visit to the Enogie of Ugo-Niyekorhiomwon, His Royal Highness,  Ogierhiakhi Ogiugu, who is also the Chairman of Enigie, Orhionwon.”
Perhaps, in what looks like his first experience, the APC candidate, appeared surprised at the close interactions with the rural population and direct promises of support in the election.
Ize-Iyamu expressed: “I was touched by the massive display of love and support from the people who spoke in very clear terms that the APC will record 100 per cent victory across all wards in Orhionwon local government.
“I was grateful to our traditional fathers, the leaders of our party, including former Governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and his Deputy, Dr. Pius Odudu, who is also a prominent son of Orhionwon, and  everyone else, for the show of support.”
Ize-Iyamu stated that the neglect of the council by the incumbent administration is regrettable. “Our party will reconstruct the Benin-Abraka  road and ensure the provision of basic amenities, especially, power, which is crucial to the ease of doing business, learning and the standard of living,” the APC candidate promised.
Share this on WhatsApp