The Senate ad-hoc committee that investigated the allegations of N40  billion finical malfeasance by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), in its report exposed alleged fraudulent sharing of N4.9 billion of the commission’s funds among the acting Managing Director of the NDDC IMC and staffers of the interventionist agency under the guise of medical allowances.
National Daily gathered that the Senate investigative committee report exposed that IMC members and other senior staff of NDDC shared N4.9 billion for personal medical checks.
The report indicated that the NDDC interim management disbursed also N114.9 million for supplementary medical allowances to 26 staff in the same period under review. The medical expenses were made during the lockdown period to control the spread of COVID-19 in the country.
The report which was adopted before the Senate proceeded on recess showed funds deposited in the beneficiaries’ personal accounts between March and April 2020 when the fear of coronavirus spread was high.
The senate report indicted the acting Managing Director, Professor Daniel Pondei, and two executive directors of receiving N14.2 million each.  Four other senior staff received N8 million each while 140 others received N7 million each from the largess.
The senate report clarified that the first NDDC Interim Management Committee (MC) led by Dr. Joi Nunieh, never made such a payment.
According to the report: “The three members of the Interim Management Committee received the highest amount of N142 million each.
“Two other people, namely Evan Caroline Nagbo and Ms Cecilia Akintomide, took N12,387,500 each, while Peter Uwa Edieya was paid N10,340,000.”
The report further indicated that the NDDC interim management paid 75 other staff N6 million each, and 153 staff members were paid N5.5 million.
It was further revealed that four other categories of staff received between N4.1 million and N4.8 million, and seven other staff received N3 million each. Moreover, 804 workers were identified to have received N2.4 million to N2.9 million each.
The senate report also revealed that of the N114.9 mullion disbursed by the IMC for supplementary medical allowance to 26 staff, about 15 workers received N7 million, as one staff received N5.2 million.
Other workers in the lower ranks were given between N375, 000 and N550, 000 each.
The report exposed that “payment to all the 1,401 staff who received the allowance was made on March 16, 2020.”
The fund was said to be shared by the IMC with arbitrariness; displaying discretionary powers to indiscriminately share the money according to ranks or the hierarchy of the commission.
This is part of the NDDC funds budgeted for the development of the Niger Delta states which those entrusted with the funds turned to share among themselves as booties without clear policy.
The senate, accordingly, passed a resolution requesting President Muhammadu Buhari to dissolve the IMC and appoint a substantive board of the NDDC.