Share this on WhatsAppSenator Ali Ndume, representing Borno South Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Ali Ndume, at a stakeholders’ meeting organised by Senate Committee on Special Duties and the North East Development Commission in Maiduguri, Borno State, covertly indicted President Muhammadu Buhari increasing killings, destruction of property and associated hunger in the northeast Nigeria. He decried that Boko Haram terrorists attacks and invasion of communities are increasing.
Senator Ndume decried how Boko Haram terrorists slaughtered 75 members of his community in Gwoza Local Government Area, Borno State in one-night operation, bemoaning that he can’t go to his hometown again because it is no longer safe. He challenged members of the senate committee to visit the rural settlements to ascertain the level of insecurity in the local governments under siege.
According to Ndume: “If the senate committee would take time during their stay to go round some of the camps and even the nearby Konduga Local Government Area, we would all better appreciate what the people are facing.
“Even as a serving senator, I still cannot go to Gwoza, my hometown, because it is not safe.
“Our security operatives are trying their best, and we have to give it to them. But the situation is overwhelming. People are dying every day, either from attacks or by hunger. We have lost many lives here.
“There was a time in my hometown that about 75 elders, most of whom I know personally, were dragged by Boko Haram to the town’s abattoir and slaughtered like animals. Only two persons survived because their bodies were covered with other people’s blood and the assailants thought they were dead.
“In the same Gwoza, Boko Haram had in a single day lined up young men and summarily shot them dead. These were just some standout cases.”
Ndume invariably appealed for more efforts by the federal government to check the rising insecurity and hunger in northeast Nigeria.

				
				PV: 
				12
			Share this on WhatsApp