The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission said it has commenced investigation on the financial misappropriation in the Niger Delta Development Commission. However, it’s operations at the Lekki/Ikoyi axis of Lagos today got a lot of commenters talking on the social streets. So much so that EFCC started trending on Twitter.

Considering that the APC leader, Ahmed Tinubu resides in Ikoyi also sparked some interesting tweets online.

One tweet reads, “EFCC is doing stop and search in the same Lagos that bullion van is doing home delivery for politician. This life no balance, the hustle is real.”





Another twitter handle also raised serious points on the matter, “EFCC wanted to score another cheap point, but they failed. This is what we’ve been saying. When you hire incompetent people, they do whatever they like. How can an anti-graft agency be on the street doing stop and search? Every anti-graft agency I know conducts investigationbefore arresting but EFCC do the exact opposite.

“People don’t understand that this lawlessness is too dangerous to be allowed to continue.

“The sad thing about this Lekki/Ikoyi raid is that innocent people will end up being arrested and detained for crimes they no nothing about.”




While no one knows for sure what the EFCC is doing in that axis of Lagos. The Concerned Nigerians group however got a reply to their letter asking the anti-graft agency to investigate the corruption allegations and spending by the NDDC.

In its reply, Head, Economic Governance Section of the EFCC, Adebayo Adeniyi, said investigations had commenced on the matter.


The commission also asked the group to visit the commission in order to adopt your petition.

“We write to acknowledge the receipt of your petition dated August 3, 2020 in respect of the above subject and to inform you that investigation into the case has commenced.

“In view of the above, you are kindly requested to attend an interview with the undersigned through the O/C team six on Thursday, August 20, 2020 at EFCC headquarters third floor, Plot 301/302, Institutions and Research District, jabi, Abuja by 10am, in order to adopt your petition,” the EFCC wrote.