Ahead of the Edo State governorship election slated for 19, September 2020, a group of politicians backing the flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) and his running mate, Governor Godwin Obaseki and Philips Shaibu Edo, has expressed the confidence that the PDP will defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Ize-Iyamu at the poll.
The group under the aegis of Obaseki-Shaibu Victory Movement (OSVM) and led by Chief John Obanor, in a press release stated that the people were behind Obaseki because he made Edo “a case study on accountability.”
He also noted that the governor has “the support of notable political leaders in the state.”
“Governor Godwin Obaseki is as good as through to the governorship victory and will therefore continue at Osadebe House”, Obanor said.
The body praised him for women empowerment policies, providing an enabling environment for small scale business, shifting resources to local governments for infrastructure improvement, and others.
“The good people of Edo State cannot be taken for a ride. They know that the candidacy of Obaseki is the right one and that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is the party that will win the September 19 governorship election,” he stated.
The party recently announced that it had gained thousands of new members after Obaseki’s defection from the APC.
Tony Aziegbemi, State PDP Chair, disclosed that membership cards collection rose from 20,000 to 100,000, with more requests being processed.
Meanwhile, the PDP has alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC), has been involved in the printing of illegal Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) during the election.
Edo State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, who made the allegation at a press conference in Benin Sunday, said that the matter has been reported to security agencies and the police.
Nehikhare accused the APC of trying to stoke violence in the state with a view of having the election postponed by INEC, saying that the PDP will not dance to the tune played by the party.
However, reacting to the allegation, APC State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Chris Azebamwen said, “It is a mark of ignorance for PDP’s Chris Nehikhare to accuse leaders of APC of criminally printing PVCs. Any politician who does that will be wasting his/her time and money because INEC’s card readers will reject the fake PVCs.