Share this on WhatsApp 
By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu, and the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, have drawn battle line in the build up to the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. The two political leaders in the state coming from same background of activism and comradeship, appear to have elevated the conventional electioneering campaign to warfare, deploying their mobilization and advocacy machinations to the grassroots. Apparently, their kinsmen have been drawn into the battlefield protecting their respective territories and political bounds.
Shaibu is the running mate to incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the governorship election. Oshiomhole is leading the APC campaign for Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the APC candidate.
The political acrimony Oshiomhole developed against Obaseki; may have provoked Shaibu into throwing himself into the battlefield to reinforce his principal as he shares same community with Oshiomhole.
Accordingly, the emergent political acrimony between Oshiomhole and Shaibu further infested their respective kinsmen who have engaged in visible protests and resistance in their domains.
The significant phenomenon in the skirmishes is the zeal to crush political godfather in Edo State.
The conflagration between the PDP and APC in Edo North is being dominated by supporters of Shaibu and Oshiomhole.
National Daily gathered that Jattu youths had obstructed the APC from holding campaign in the community. This was said to be a reaction to the obstruction of PDP campaign in Apana, considered the Headquarters of Oshiomhole’s ward. Jattu residents ha d argued that the obstruction of the PDP campaign in Apana was a humiliation to the Edo State Governor, Obaseki and the Deputy Governor, Shaibu. Thus, Shaibu’s kinsmen in Jattu chased APC away from holding campaign in their community, which was said to be the administrative headquarter of Uzairue clan. Oshiomhole is an indigene of Uzairue clan.
In the PDP attack at Oshiomhole’s ward, there were reports of gunshots and attack on the PDP convoy which included the governor.
in the retaliatory attack on APC campaign team, several youths in Jattu were said to have taken over the streets with bonfires at different locations and significant entrants into the community. They further chorused ingenuous songs in their local dialect to embarrass and humiliate Oshiomhole, communicating to him that he is not welcome in the community.
National Daily further gathered that the APC campaign team withdrew from the community to adjacent rural settlements outside the environ to hold the campaign.
Oshiomhole at the campaign venue, was said to have attributed the blame of the attack by the youths in the community to the traditional ruler of Uzairue, who he accused of plotting to divide the kingdom with his overt support for the Edo State Deputy Governor.
Meanwhile, the fireworks and warfare for the Edo election continues, the leading governorship candidates are deepening their mobilization and campaign in the grassroots, adopting ward-to-ward campaign. September 19 remains a historical date in the political transition and growth of democracy in Edo State.

				
				PV: 
				25
			Share this on WhatsApp