Following the rising insecurity in the country, the United Kingdom has issued travel warning to its nationals in Nigeria, and also temporarily withdrawn a small number of its staff and dependents at its Mission in both Abuja and Lagos.
The travel advisory which was issued during the week and publicised on the official website of the UK Foreign Office, stated that “the Foreign & Commonwealth Office currently advises British nationals against all but essential international travel.”
Also, the statement urged Britons against travelling to Borno State, Yobe State, Adamawa State and Gombe State, Bauchi State, Zamfara State, Kano State, Jigawa State, Katsina State and Kogi State within 20km of the border with Niger in Sokoto and Kebbi States non-riverine areas of Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers State and Abia State.
The UK Foreign Office further stated that the current insecurity in Nigeria has necessitated the temporal withdrawal of a small number of UK staff and dependents at the British High Commission in Abuja and the British Deputy High Commission in Lagos.
“Both locations will continue to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British people in Nigeria,” the statement reads.
According to the UK advisory, terrorist attacks often happen in the north east, particularly in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States.
“Humanitarian hubs have been targeted during attacks in the north east, including Monguno, Borno State on 13 June 2020. There have also been significant attacks in Gombe, Kano, Kaduna, Jos and Bauchi States and in the Federal capital, Abuja. Further attacks are likely,” the office warned.
It also revealed the high threat of kidnappings throughout the country which “can be motivated by criminality or terrorism and could be carried out for financial or political gain.
The UK Foreign Office also revealed that “Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) are continuing to actively plan to kidnap foreigners.
It, therefore, warned its nationals to “be vigilant at all times and keep others informed of your travel plans If you’re working in Nigeria you should follow your employer’s security advice, make sure your accommodation is secure and review your security measures regularly.”