Slum2School Innovation Hub, a volunteer-driven developmental organization has received a $100,000 donation from Prudential Zenith Life Insurance to cushion impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on education in disadvantaged communities in Nigeria.
The donation was made through a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Fund from the Prudence Foundation, the community investment arm of Prudential Plc in Asia and Africa.
Speaking during the presentation of the cheque, the Managing Director/CEO, Prudential Zenith Life Insurance Limited, Mr. Chuks Igumbor said that: “Our contribution to Slum2School’s activities demonstrates our corporate social responsibility action plan which is targeted towards communities most in need of the support we provide.”
He noted further that “the Coronavirus pandemic has impacted all aspects of our lives including the education sector, with a steep widening of education inequality as children and youths from underprivileged communities are unable to access the learning materials that students from affluent backgrounds are able to access. The strategic partnership between Prudential Zenith Life and Slum2School, therefore, aims to bridge this gap and engage learners from Nursery to Senior Secondary School across twenty slums and communities in Lagos State.”
The $100,000 donation will be used to procure 300 tablets with internet connections, 34 laptops for Slum2School facilitators, 34 whiteboards, markers and board eraser sets, state-of-the-art learning studio for 50-90 pupils per session, stationery for students, as well as learning programs and software.
In addition to the cash donation, relief foodstuff was also provided to less privileged families within the identified communities to assist in these trying times.
Slum2School Africa is helping to transform society by empowering underprivileged children in slums and remote communities with quality education, entrepreneurial skills and psychosocial support to enable them to realise their full potential and become social reformers.
Prudential Zenith Life Insurance Limited, part of Prudential Plc, is one of the oldest and most strongly capitalised life insurance companies in the world.
Prudential Zenith Life which seeks to remove uncertainty from life’s big events, providing customers with the freedom to confront the future with greater confidence, provides a range of insurance and investment-linked savings products designed to suit corporate and individual customers’ budgets.
It is equally committed to meeting the long-term savings and protection needs of families and businesses in Nigeria.
Caption: L-R: Head of Operation, Slum2School Innovation Hub, Dr. Ruth Ebe; MD/CEO, Prudential Zenith Life Insurance, Mr. Chuks Igumbor; Executive Director/Founder, Slum2School Innovation Hub, Mr. Otto Orondaam and Chief Commercial Officer, Prudential Zenith Life Insurance, Mrs. Isioma Olowu during the cheque presentation of $100,000USD donation to support Slum2School efforts at bridging the education gap amongst the less privileged students during this COVID-19 pandemic.