The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State has reacted to a statement credited to the National Leader of the All Progress Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu where he criticised the Governor of Edo state, Godwin Obaseki over the political crisis rocking the state.
Recall that Tinubu in a statement personally signed by him berated Obaseki, accusing him of gravely assaulting democracy and making a mockery of the Nigerian constitution.
However, in a swift response, the PDP, through its South-South national vice chairman, Chief Dan Orbih, advised Tinubu to concentrate on what they described as his epileptic 2023 presidential ambition rather than wasting time and energy on Edo political situation.
He said Tinubu should leave Edo State alone and stop accusing Oabseki.
According to Orbih, “Tinubu style of leadership and politics of South West Nigeria is not attractive to Edo people, the only person one can rightly refer to as a dictator is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.
“Is does not make any sense for him to sit down in the comfort of his home drawing up grounds for impeachment for the elected governor of Edo State concerning the unfortunate incident in the State House of Assembly. Reading through his statement, I have come to the conclusion that certainly, he is not aware of the issues.
“It is proper to state here that, we only have ten house members who are legally representing their constituencies, I expect as a former governor of Lagos State, he should know better that once a proclamation is made the law does not allow for another.
‘The other fourteen members stayed away on the instruction of the man who nominated them to be candidates of APC which is Adams Oshiomhole. And we want to advise Tinubu to concentrate on his epileptic 2023 ambition,” Orbih added.
Meanwhile, the Deputy Governor, Comr Philip Shaibu, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Inspector General of Police, Department of State Services and other authorities concerned to as a matter of urgency.
He said; ” we have intelligence that some individuals are in Edo State courtesy of the former national chairman of the All Progressive Congress, APC, and the names of persons and their mode of entry have been communicated to security agencies.
“Their assignment is to come and assassinate some known individuals in the State. We want president Buhari to tell the security to do their work. Edo is not going to be a theatre of war, we are law abiding,” he said.