Share this on WhatsApp 
Another video is trending online showing Femi Fani-Kayode calling another journalist stupid—less than 48 hours after he had an emotional meltdown when a reporter asked who is funding his state tour when there’s no campaign in Calabar.
The reason Fani-Kayode gave for chewing out the journalist in the new video is similar to what he gave while apologizing yesterday.
According to his spokesman Emmanuel Owabor who confirmed the incident happened when his boss visited Zamfara earlier in August, the journalist deserved what he got.
“The reporter was asking why he (Fani-Kayode) was always against Yari, the former governor of Zamfara State; he was asking if he was sponsored or not to attack Yari,” Owabor told Premium Times.
But Fani-kayode, who likes to call himself  a PDP chieftain when he has no party official title, got mad with the reporter.
“If I had known that this is what you wanted to ask me, I would have asked you not to ask me that kind of stupid question,” Fani-Kayodesaid in te video, dropping his name, family, and previous appointment as minister and attack dogs for presidents and his party PDP.
“I was brought into politics by Marafan Sokoto, you understand me? Alhaji Umaru Shinkafi…
“I have been a leading member of the opposition, the resistance over the last five years.
“And a day has not passed that I have not spoken about what I felt was going wrong in this country. That is because that is what opposition is meant to do and is what was done to the PDP by the APC when PDP was in power. You understand me?
“Even for you to repeat that to me is insulting at my level,” the former minister told him.
“I will speak against Yari free of charge any day, anytime. I am FFK, do you understand me?
“I take on presidents, I don’t take on former governors. He (Yari) is an irritant to me,” he said.
Nigerians on social media took him on when the Cross Rivers incident broke out in the media Tuesday, describing him as a narcissistic adult who think himself too important.
Fani-Kayode will be 60 next year.

				
				PV: 
				50
			Share this on WhatsApp