Share this on WhatsAppThe governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, at the weekend chided Governor Godwin Obaseki over playing politics with the people’s health in the state.
The APC candidate in a media interaction, berated the governor over his action in locking up the new Benin Specialist Hospital because of his disposition to politics of bitterness. More so, Ize-Iyamu expressed concern why Governor Obaseki should hand over the Specialist Hospital built with public funds to private investors to turn to issue Edo people exorbitant bills for medical treatment.
Pastor Ize-Iyamu lamented: “Some of our people travel all the way to Benin City for healthcare, but they have to pay through their nose because the governor, after politicizing the Benin Specialist Hospital and kept it under lock and key for no other reason except bitter and petty politics, handed it to some private individuals, who are charging the people steep prices, in a hospital built with public funds.”
Pastor Ize-Iyamu stated that the Benin hospital would not have been a double jeopardy if Obaseki had delivered on his promise of building primary health centres in all the 192 wards of Edo State.
He remarked: “This government promised to build a primary health centre in all 192 wards.  In four years, he built none.
“So, Edo communities have to travel several kilometres just to see a doctor.”
Ize-Iyamu assured that such hardship from an “insensitive leader”, would end with Obaseki, when he is voted out on September 19.
He promised: “My administration will change all of these.  We will harness the resource potentials of the state across all the three senatorial districts.”
The APC candidate appealed to the people of Edo State to regard voting out Obaseki as a serious moral duty that must be done on September 29.
Ize-Iyamu, accordingly, advocated a “clear and sweeping” mandate, so that the hard task of rebuilding Edo could start without delay.

				
				PV: 
				32
			Share this on WhatsApp