A youth group under the aegis of auspices of YouthAid Nigeria, on Monday called for the sack of Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai and other top brass in Nigeria’s security apparatus over their inability to fish out those behind the recent attack on the Governor of Borno State, Professor Umara Zulum.
The Executive Director, YouthAid, Comrade Smart Edwards, who made this assertion in a statement in Abuja, also lamented that the army hierarchy has failed to tell Nigerians those who nearly got the governor killed on his way from Baga town.
He urged Buhari to recall and sanction all the General Officers Commanding (GOCs) in the Northeast over their inability to prevent the attack that has caused Nigeria monumental embarrassment.
“YouthAid unequivocally restates its stand with Governor Zulum, the people of Borno and prays for the recovery of any member of his team that sustained injury. We also reassure the Governor of the solidarity of Nigerian students and citizens.
“This is a matter we would not leave. It is of serious interest to us, Prof. Zulum is ours, a national pride and very dear to the victory over terror in Nigeria, particularly the North East Region.
“We call on President Buhari to immediately order for the recall or reposting of the Commanders (GOCs) in the Northeast and even the Commander at the Nigerian Army Super Camp.
“It is clear that their coordination and commitment has proved ineffective as evidenced by the attack on the Governor’s convoy and killing of a newly wedded soldier, among others. If the Army is not tired of Buratai, the citizens are tired of him and his manifest inefficiencies and excuses.
“Lives are being lost daily, young people who are both the future of the military and the hopes of our nation’s defence are being wasted unnecessarily.”
He noted that security is also the first business of the government. “It will no longer be appropriate to give excuses,” he declared.
“Find them immediately and show them to the public. Governor Zulum is a God-sent to the state at a time like this and must be protected at all cost,” Comrade Edwards said.
He also called on Nigerians to stand up for the security of the country, as “this is central to President Buhari’s agenda.