Share this on WhatsApp





National Daily can confirm that Chelsea have finally completed a £50m signing of the England international Ben Chilwell from Leicester City.
The defender has remained a key target for the Stamford Bridge club with Manager Frank Lampard keen on strengthening his left-back position.
It is understood that Lampard has been a big fan of the 23-year-old, who he has followed for a number of months.
There is no doubt that Chilwell has enjoyed another impressive Premier League campaign for the Foxes, making 27 appearances and scoring three goals and creating three assists.
The Milton Keynes born Chilwell clearly felt the time was right to move on for a new challenge away from the King Power Stadium to join the likes of forward players Hakim Ziyech and Timo Werner for an interesting season ahead.
Chilwell speaking after his transfer pointed out: “I am delighted to be joining Chelsea at this very exciting time for the club.
“I’m looking forward to being a part of this young, dynamic squad led by Frank Lampard as we challenge for honours next season.
“I can’t wait to get started and hopefully it won’t be long before we’re playing in front of the Chelsea fans at Stamford Bridge.”
Undoubtedly, the Blues are quite delighted to finally welcome the England international to Stamford Bridge.
Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia speaking after the transfer maintained:
“We are very pleased to have completed our third addition to our exciting squad for the coming season. Ben brings plenty of top-level experience playing in the Premier League, Champions League and at international level, despite his young age.
“We are confident Ben will adapt very quickly to being a Chelsea player and with the fixture programme for 2020/21 especially busy, he is a fantastic addition to the squad needed to challenge for honours.”
Obviously, the Blues fans cannot hide their ecstasy with the way Chelsea have done business in the transfer market so far ahead of the 2020/2021 season after overcoming their recent transfer ban.







				
				PV: 
				10
			Share this on WhatsApp