The security aides of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on Thursday repelled assassination attempt on the governor during campaign tour of Etsako West Local Government Area, Edo State.  National Daily gathered that gunmen struck at Ward 10, Apena, shooting sporadically in attack on the governor’s convoy and the campaign team of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on their way to the campaign venue.
A combined team of security operatives and vigilante groups were said to have overwhelmed the gunmen and other thugs on ravage at the scene of the violence.
National Daily further gathered that Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu had to come out his SUV vehicle and pursued the attackers out of sight. The gunmen were said to flee on sighting the deputy governor before the PDP campaign team which include Mike Oghiadomhe, Chief of Staff  to former President Goodluck Jonathan, proceeded with the movement for the ward-to-ward campaign which extended to Apena Market Square in Ward 10 identified to be the country home of former national chairman if the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole.
The PDP had halted the ward-to-ward campaign in the local government earlier scheduled for August 10 and 11, 2020, after intelligence report revealed plot to attack Governor Obaseki and the PDP campaign team. The campaign, however, resumed on Thursday after re-organizing the security system for the protection of the governor and PDP members.
Governor Obaseki at the campaign rally highlighted his immense support for Oshiomhole to become Governor of Edo State, including his selfless service of raising funds for Oshiomhole and serving in his administration without receiving salaries. He told the audience that Oshiomhole, himself, testified to his support. Governor Obaseki assured the people that he will resist the temptation and provocation to return violence for violence so as not to stall the election in the state.
The governor declared: “as we were coming here, you heard what happened. They went to hire thugs and began to shoot to prevent us from coming here.
“On September 19, 2020, use your PVCs to pepper them. This election is special. It will show who is in charge of politics in Edo State. “For all my eight years in government, you know what I did for Comrade Oshiomhole. He said it with his mouth. I supported him to be Governor; I raised funds for him; I worked for him and Edo State for eight years without receiving a dime.”
However, no casualty was recorded in the gunmen attack. Women and youths, beside others, were said to have thronged to the PDP campaign venue.