Share this on WhatsAppEmerging statistics shows that incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  has developed a high profile that brightens his chances of re-election in the Edo State governorship election.
PDP State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, at a press conference in Benin City on Sunday, Edo State, revealed that PDP is on track  to winning the September 19 governorship election as indicated by results of the opinion poll said to be conducted by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The APC was said to have used the opinion poll to test the popularity of its candidate in the governorship election in the state.
The PDP State Publicity Secretary in Edo, Chris Osa Nehikhare, had disclosed that the opinion poll sponsored by APC leaders indicated that more people accepted Obaseki, noting that the figures showed that Governor Godwin Obaseki won in 16 of the 18 local government areas in the state.
Nehikhare had declared: “We are not unaware that the APC a few weeks ago commissioned a reputable polling company to carry out an opinion poll to ascertain its chances of winning the governorship election.
“As soon as the APC leaders got the result it started causing confusion and chaos in their midst because the result showed that the PDP wins overwhelming in at least 16 LGAs out of the 18 local governments leaving only two councils for APC
“Edo people are very sophisticated. They know who their friends are, they know who to support and how to make the support work.
“We want to congratulate the Edo people for the beautiful choice they are making to re-elect Godwin Obaseki for a second term.”
Nehikhare commended the Edo people for their preference Governor Godwin Obaseki, the PDP candidate, saying that the governor is working for the general interests and wellbeing of the people.
He stated that the result has placed APC on difficult terrain, adding that donors and contributors are withdrawing their financial support to the APC campaign, thus, causing scarcity of funds for the party’s electioneering project.
The State Publicity Secretary was of the view that the result of the survey sponsored by the party has now heightened APC’s desperation, compelling it to resort to violence and attacks on PDP members. He accused APC leaders of instigating violence to create a scene of disorder in the state and call for a state of emergency and the postponement of the governorship election.
Nehikhare had declared: “The consequence of the opinion poll result now makes the APC desperate to have the election postponed, hence, there is an increase in their violent attacks.
“In spite of the vicious attacks on our members and supporters, I appeal to them not to be provoked or retaliate. We need our PVCs and thumb print to shut them out of the Government House permanently on September 19.
“The APC is perpetuating the violence with a view to have a state of emergency declared in the state and then get the election postponed.
“The attack increased because APC contracted a reputable firm to conduct an opinion poll and the result showed that Obaseki is the choice of Edo people and that PDP would win overwhelmingly.
“We want the election to hold, Edo people want the election to hold, but APC wants the election postponed.”

				
				PV: 
				145
			Share this on WhatsApp