Share this on WhatsAppA renowned Reverend in Edo State has exposed another grand lie of the All progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate for the governorship in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, over a conjured endorsement. The Reverend refuting the claim, remarked that it is “a joke taken too far.”
Rev Olu Martins in a statement on the recent political development in Edo State, decried that in the past  48 hours, his phone has been inundated with calls and text messages in reaction to his purported endorsement of the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu. He noted that unfortunately, he suffered a double jeopardy of losing his Android phone and a failing health, hence, he could not respond to all the lies immediately. The Reverend indicated that he recovered both on Wednesday night, he has to “come straight with the facts before this lie wears the toga of the truth.”
Rev Olu Martins declared: “There was never a time I endorsed the candidate of Osagie Ize-iyamu nor joined his campaigns as you can’t find any video or text of me doing the same anywhere. Can you endorse someone without saying you did in a formal outing?”
He, however, admitted that Pastor Ize-Iyamu is his very good friend, and has good relationships  with his family who he relates with freely and regularly. He also admitted that Ize-Iyamu has played a pivotal role in his life and continues to do so.
The Reverend acknowledged that Ize-Iyamu was instrumental to his marrying of his wife; being key to their meeting and mobilising support to the success of the same. “Not many know that my in-laws are even closer to Ize-iyamu having known him for over 25 years. I met Ize-iyamu in 2000 when I was Student’s Union President in Ekpoma and we have remained close since then,” Rev Olu Martins revealed.
The Reverend narrated that he visited Ize-iyamu, believing that as friends, politics won’t separate them, on Sunday 23rd August to have a private chat with him where he met some friends on the APC/POI divide. He noted that they laughed and joked together as the pictures they posted showed. He, however, insisted that he is an activist and not a partisan politician.
“I am an activist and not a party person and I can associate freely. That association shouldn’t be tagged endorsement or dumping Obaseki when that is not what I came to do.  Moreover, since it was indoors in my “elder brother’s” house, I saw no harm until I saw the pictures and the caption that followed, Rev Olu Martins protested.
The Reverend maintained: “Let me state that wearing a POI cap can’t be equated with an endorsement and it doesn’t. My relationship with Ize-Iyamu is long and deep as I am usually free at his place. I do not have any issue with him save that I have my preference politically speaking in this election for Godwin Obaseki.
“I have been a staunch supporter of Governor Obaseki  and committed canvasser of his reelection bid having appeared on several media stations both local, national and even internationally, the recent being a massive rally where I was  like the spokesperson.
“I have always been a direct person as I have never been known to probate and reprobate at the same time. When I support you, I do so till the end without wavering.”
Rev Olu Martins recalled that he supported Ize-Iyamu in 2016 even to the Supreme Court, insisting that he has resolved to do the same in supporting Obaseki in the 2020 election.
“I supported POI in 2016 and stayed with him till the Supreme Court verdict. I intend to do the same with Godwin Obaseki come rain come shine until he wins his reelection bid by September 19th this year.
“I don’t betray trust and friends. I have always been steadfast in struggles since my university days and that is not going to change any time soon.
“How can I now see myself working with people I have had issues with and criticized heavily for almost a decade now.  God forbid,” Rev Olu Martins declared.
He narrated that on August 24th some pastors invited him to a meeting which turned out to be an endorsement for POI. He explained that his presence at the meeting was not to endorse Ize-Iyamu but merely spiritual. He noted that if he were there to endorse Ize-Iyamu, it would have been done formally. He added that he did not sign the communique.
Rev Olu Martins further declared: “My presence there was purely spiritual with ministry intentions only. I wasn’t part of those who signed the communiqué as my role was spiritual and nonaligned.
“If really were to endorse POI, would it be informally in the midst of friends jesting and laughing? Wouldn’t I rather hold a press conference, a rally, or an outing with my team as I have often done for POI in the past? The pictures posted didn’t have me standing with POI, himself, a scenario that may have been more believable.
“A person of my stature and status clearly should know better how to endorse in grand style even if I wanted to.”
The Reverend argued that the allegation financial inducement was as ludicrous and dumb. He said that N680,000 advancement for an agreed sum of 5 million insinuation sounds like nonsense talk, noting that he has direct access to Governor Obaseki?
“I have direct access to the Governor. So, if I need 5 million, I can ask him directly.
“I have had several one-on-one with Governor Obaseki. I have many friends in government, including Phillip Shaibu, the Deputy Governor, who we were in the student’s movement together as far back as 1999.  If I was really money conscious, I would have long sold out and compromised when Oshiomhole was Governor. He made several overtures to me which I turned down.
“Only a foolish man will leave a performing governor who he has direct access to and who has been good to him to a side that is uncertain and packed full already.
“I am not anywhere near broke and even if I was, no single individual is richer than the government anyway,” Rev Olu Martins said.
He stated that a good name, according to the Bible, is better than silver, gold or even being Deputy Governor to POI; suppose that was even possible. He insisted that he cannot come this far and look back when he is not Lot’s wife. “I apologize if my associations in the past few days may have suggested something contrary to what I have always believed and stood for, but I remain on the side of Godwin Obaseki.
“I am convinced that he means well for the Edo people and has done well for them. He, therefore, deserves our overwhelming support in his bid to rid Edo State of godfathers, careers politicians and lions and tigers whose major and only preoccupation is our common patrimony.
“I am an unrepentant Obasekist. I did not, can’t and won’t endorse POI or any other candidate other than Godwin Obaseki.
“Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu is my friend and I will continue to respect and admire him. I wish him in his pursuit to be Governor of Edo State but my candidate for the September 19th election is Godwin Obaseki and by the Grace of God, will always win. The lovers of democracy and haters of godfatherism will win standing side by side with Godwin Obaseki,” Rev Olu Martins unequivocally declared.

				
				PV: 
				33
			Share this on WhatsApp