Share this on WhatsApp 
Southwest governors are resisting attempts by President Muhammadu Buhari to directly or indirectly weaken or make ineffective the security structure of the states in the zone, Amotekun. From Ondo State to Ekiti, Oyo, the governors are opposing the federal government directive the Amotekun should operate under the supervision or as directed by the Inspector General of the Nigeria Police, Mohammed Adamu.
However, Amotetun was established by the laws of the operating states in the southwest not by federal laws. This was the agreement at the early stage of its formation when it generated conflicts.
Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, at a meeting with chairmen of the 68 Local Government and Local Council Development Council Areas at the House of Chiefs, Secretariat Ibadan,  on Thursday, commissioned Amotekun in all the local units of the state, insisting that the security outfit has come to stay with them, adding that it   will ensure the protection of lives and property in the state. The Oyo Governor maintained that the Federal Government cannot control Amotekun.
Governor Makinde had declared: “We want our people to sleep with their two eyes closed.
“Of course, security is one of the pillars of this administration and we must do everything possible to invest in the security of lives and property.”
The governor narrated that recently in Okeho, armed robbers went to rob but the community rose against them and apprehended them. He added that members of the community carried out thorough search of the forests and caught the robbers.
“This is why I will continue to say it and I am saying it for the whole world to hear; Amotekun is here to stay with us. And it will not be under the control of the federal establishment. It will be under our control.
“Security of our people is extremely important, because nothing can take place, as far as we are concerned, in an atmosphere of insecurity,” Governor Makinde maintained.
The Oyo Governor, thereafter, directed all the caretaker committee chairmen to immediately go back to their local units to establish Security Committees for containing security challenges in their respective jurisdictions.
The governor assured them that the state government would provide necessary resources they require to succeed in the security duty.
Governor Makinde remarked: “From where we are here, the biggest challenge we have seen so far is in the area of security.
“We are getting close to the ’ember’ months, a period in which some people who have not worked all year and want to have a Merry Christmas, commit all sorts of crimes.
“So, we expect that there will be a spike in criminal activities. I want to, as a matter of urgency, urge you that you all go back to your areas to set up your Security Committees. It must be done almost immediately. And I will be happy to release funds; to give approval for you to spend some money on security within your domains.
“Oyo State is very large; in terms of land size, we are more than all the states of South-East Nigeria put together. So, we have a lot to do to protect the state. We have international borders, so there is smuggling taking place. They killed a Customs Official in Saki a few weeks ago; those things are not acceptable to us.
“As the government that is the closest to the people, you have to take control of the challenges of insecurity in your various domains and you should please, once those committees are set up, any enabler that you need, let us know. We will work with the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, to make sure those enablers are provided.”
Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had earlier declared that it is not possible for the federal government to control Amotekun.

				
				PV: 
				12
			Share this on WhatsApp