Share this on WhatsApp 
The Executive Chairman of Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Dr. Nureni Adeniran, says the state government has resolved to sue contractors who were awarded contracts but not executed or completed three years after they were awarded.
Adeniran who disclosed this while fielding questions on a live programme at an Ibadan-based radio station, revealed that some contractors have failed to justify the contracts awarded to them by the past administration in the State, while some of them have abandoned such projects.
He said his tenure as the Executive Chairman of OYOSUBEB has afforded him the opportunity to uncover how contractors have ripped off the State Government with shoddy jobs after collecting the huge sums for contracts.
He further revealed that the Board would, as a matter of duty recruit security guards to secure public primary schools soon. He added that this would help to prevent intrusion, invasion and vandalization of public primary school property in the state.
While pointing out that the UBEC/SUBEB 2019 Intervention Project would allow the rebuilding of some public primary schools fences, Adeniran added that the board has a good synergy with all the relevant security agencies that would assist in securing the property of the public schools.
Speaking on gratuity, he said, “On the issue of gratuity, what the government of Governor Seyi Makinde has paid in just over one year is more than what the past administration paid in eight years of the past administration.”
He also spoke on the forthcoming common entrance examination, “Similarly, the Board is ready to assist the Ministry of Education in monitoring the common entrance examinations for primary six pupils which is to be conducted by the ministry, while the common entrance examination s had to be postponed because of the ongoing WAEC examinations in schools that are already centres for the examinations.”
He disclosed that the management of the board has been divided into five teams to cover the five zones for effective monitoring and management of the common entrance examinations in the state.
 
Share this on WhatsApp