Share this on WhatsApp 
The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has continued to suffer the consequences of Adams Oshiomhole’s ill legacies in his eight years of being Governor of Edo State. Ize-Iyamu has at different times in the electioneering campaign for the September 19 election been treated with disdain in some parts of Edo State not for his personal sin but for what his political principal, Oshiomhole, left as legacy, essentially, in Edo Central Senatorial District,  during his years of leadership of the state.
Apparently, the Edo Central Campaign Director General of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Governor Godwin Obaseki’s re-election campaign, Senator Clifford Ordia, on Thursday declared that Esan North East is the home of late Chief Tony Anenih, and that APC does not exist there.
Obviously, Oshiomhole’s misguided confrontation with Anenih has turned back to hunt Ize-Iyamu who is being sponsored by the former APC national chairman.
National Daily gathered that Ordia in a media interaction before the arrival of Obaseki #Ward2Ward campaign team in the LG, declared: “I told some of our party Leaders before we arrived here that they should not expect to see anyone defecting from APC to PDP here because they don’t exist in this LGA.
“Before the demise of our National Leader, Chief Tony Anenih, Adams Oshiomhole publicly insulted him by calling him all manner of unprintable names. The same Oshiomhole desecrated Uromi traditional stool. How on earth will a sane person in this LGA support a man of that kind and the candidate he is projecting in an election of this magnitude? Such supporters must have been bewitched if at all they exist”.
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that at the Palace of the Ojuromi of Uromi Kingdom, the Onojie of Uromi, His Royal Highness Anslem Aidenojie Il, receiving  Governor Obaseki and his campaign team, assured them that they were on home coming mission, not just campaign visit.
The royal father commended Governor Obaseki for his support in the emergence of one of their own, Rt.  Hon. Frank Okiye, as Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly. The traditional ruler noted that that the Oshiomhole administration completely relegated the Esan Race very low in his eight years of leadership.
Onogie Aidenojie Il further commended Obaseki  for accommodating the Esan in his administration both in appointments and distribution of projects in the state.
The highly esteemed traditional ruler promised the incumbent Edo Governor that the people of Uromi Kingdom will wholesomely appreciate him with their PVCs at the poll units on election day.
The royal father, however, made demand for more projects in Esan land in the second term of Obaseki. He reminded Obaseki of the need to reactivate Casavita (Cassava Production Factory) to open the rural economy and promote wealth creation in the precincts.
“God will always win,” the royal father declared.
Governor Obaseki acknowledged grand reception of the royal father. He assured that Esan North East will never be ignored or sacrificed for political acrimony as was the case in the administration of his predecessor, noting that the zone is strategic in the politics of Edo State. The governor further solicited the cooperation of the royal father to encourage the implementation of his education program for children in the local government as in other parts of the state.
Governor Obaseki promised to assist Esan leagues towards development of sports and opening empowerment opportunities for youths in the state.
He assured the royal father that he will reopen Casavita without much delay, as well as site  more development projects in Esan land.
Governor Obaseki disclosed that his administration is committed to improving electricity supply in the state. He appealed to Onojie Aidenojie Il to make land available to the state government for the development of agriculture in Uromi.
Onojie Aidenojie Il, thereafter, awarded the Governor the chieftaincy title of ” Òtale Òluòle of Uromi”. He prayed, declaring that Governor Obaseki’s second term would with unprecedented accomplishments.
Share this on WhatsApp