Share this on WhatsApp 
Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State on Thursday made a smack of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) over the decision to delist him from the invited speakers at the 2020 Conference.
Governor El-Rufai in a statement by his Special Adviser, Muyiwa Adekeye, protested that he did not request to speak at the NBA conference in the first instance; adding that he will, however,  continue to speak on matters of national importance.
“When lawyer friends requested Malam Nasir El-Rufai to accept the invitation of the NBA to participate in a panel discussion on national identity, he accepted as part of his commitment to having a national conversation and the evolution of a national consensus.
“NBA platform or not, these worthy conversations must continue. He will continue to make his voice heard on the things our country needs to do for its progress,” the statement read in part.
The NBA acting on a petition of abuse of human rights with reference to Governor El-Rufai’s suspected role in the genocide in Southern Kaduna perpetuated by the Fulani militia, withdrew the invitation to the Kaduna governor as a speaker at the NBA Conference holding virtually between August 24 and 26, 2020.
El-Rufai protested that though, NBA has the right to determine who speaks at its event, he never sought seek the NBA for the discourse, thus, no reason for agitation.
El-Rufai further protested that the NBA relied on “one-sided narrative” in making its decision.
The statement spotted the efforts of the Kaduna governor resolve the Southern Kaduna conflicts and end the bloodshed, noting that Kaduna is not the only state in Nigeria ravaged by conflicts.
“His investments in building a constituency for peace, anchored on the rule of law, respect for the citizenship rights of everyone and an embrace of the obligations of a common humanity will continue.
“Those who have chosen to pretend that it is only Kaduna State that is experiencing the security challenges in North-West, or that it is only one part of the state that is affected can enjoy the illusion.
“Malam El-Rufai remains focused on the tough and hard work of stopping the bleeding and the needless breaking of bones,” the statement declared.
 
Share this on WhatsApp