Share this on WhatsApp 
Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), ordered the arrest of a lawyer who refused to implicate the suspended chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu.
The lawyer, Victor Giwa, arrested alongside another lawyer Fatima Hassan,said it after his release from the EFCC custody on Sunday.
Donald Wokoma, a director at Damijay Integrated Services, Giwa’s former client, had told the Justice Ayo Salami panel that his bank account was frozen by the EFCC, and that he hired Giwa to sue the commission.
Wokoma would later brought Giwa to testify before the panel—og bribery allegation against Magu and certain operatives he called Magu Boys..
When Giwa appeared before the panel, he denied the bribery allegation, insisting that Magu was a man of integrity. He was later arrested.
Giwa, however, accused the AGF of instigating his arrest in press statement he entitled:
‘Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) Is Using Donald Wokoma, My Erstwhile Client Against Me For My Refusal To Testify And Indict Ibrahim Magu, Acting Chairman of EFCC, At The Justice Ayo Salami Panel Investigating The EFCC Boss’.
“On August 18 and 19, 2020, I was invited by the Justice Ayo Salami Panel, sitting in Aso Villa to testify against Ibrahim Magu through a conspiracy between the AGF, Malami (SAN) and Donald Wokoma, the sacked Special Adviser to Vice President Prof YemiOsibanjo, whom I have represented and secured a judgement in his favour,’ he said.
“Donald Wokoma was investigated for fleecing the sum of N250m from amnesty programme, through his company Damijay Integrated Services, by receiving contracts he never executed. His account was restricted by the EFCC.
“On July 11, 2020, Donald Wokoma was scheduled to be arraigned before Justice Akanbi at FCT High Court, Lugbe. Donald Wokoma was absent and I represented him and the case was adjourned till October 10, 2020, for arraignment.
“Donald (Wokoma) in a desperate move to subvert the administration of justice, to quash or suspend his trial conspired with persons in the AGF office who had promised to frustrate the trial and release (sic) the restricted account.
“To achieve this aim, the AGF requested that Donald (Wokoma) have me to do a petition against Ibrahim Magu to the Justice Ayo Salami Panel, accusing Ibrahim Magu of graft and having me to testify against the (suspended) EFCC boss, an offer I declined.
“Donald (Wokoma) in cahoots with the AGF procured a lawyer who did the petition, which was forwarded by the AGF to the panel.”
“It was my refusal and my stand to defend the truth and not to consent to the subversion of Justice that the AGF ordered my arrest and that of Fatima Hassan, a lawyer, whose testimony absolves me and Ibrahim Magu from any wrongdoing,” Giwa added.
The Justice Ayo panel has recommended to President Muhammadu Buhari  the sack and prosecution of Magu.
 
Share this on WhatsApp