Former Edo state governor and suspended Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, has been alleged to be nursing a third term agenda through his party’s governorship candidate in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.





The Deputy Governor of Edo state, Philip Shaibu, disclosed this in a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Benjamin Atu, titled, ‘Oshiomhole seeking the third term as a governor through Ize-Iyamu.
He said, “The truth is that Ize-Iyamu is merely a stooge. The real man seeking the governorship position is Adams Oshiomhole who has perfected the plan to betray democracy by seeking a third term in office. The price that Oshiomhole will pay for projecting Ize-Iyamu is outright rejection.
“Oshiomhole is displaying blind compassion with a specific pledge to return the state to the path of backwardness with failed institutions where individuals will be more powerful than government institutions with an analogue system of operations. Technological development has since left Oshiomhole behind in the scheme of things.”
“The people of Edo State subscribed voluntarily to the principle of Obaseki because they have seen these principles at work all over the state. We cannot risk the future of Edo State with a man’s shrunken aspirations.
Reacting to the statement, the Edo State Publicity Secretary of the APC, Chris Azebamwan, said the deputy governor was chasing a shadow.
Azebamwan said, “It is laughable to accuse Comrade Adams Oshiomhole of seeking a third term by proxy. He was governor for eight years and more recently, the National Chairman of the ruling party at both federal and Edo State until Godwin Obaseki betrayed the mandate freely given to him by the Edo people.
“The vision and the mission of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress, is lucidly spelt out in his manifesto which he tagged, SIMPLE agenda. Shaibu and his boss, Godwin Obaseki, know they cannot fault the document, and they don’t have an agenda of their own to offer Edo people.
“In their cluelessness, they have resorted to name-calling and mudslinging. They believe they can distract and hoodwink Edo people by hinging their campaigns on persons, instead of issues. Perhaps they should be reminded that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is not on the final list of candidates for Edo 2020.
He said with the emergence of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the APC candidate, Edo people should not just expect a better life, they should prepare to live it.