While changes in eyesight are often out of our control, and are bound to deteriorate as we age, there are some things we can do. Or, rather, not do.
“Without realizing it, plenty of seemingly harmless habits could be negatively affecting your vision,” Weslie Hamada, O.D., an optometrist and Johnson & Johnson R&D expert, said.
Here are the things you should stop doing ASAP to help keep your peepers as
Watching TV at night
In fact, looking at any type of screen right before bed in the dark, including your cell phone, e-reader, television, and computer, is bad for you. The levels of light are changing rapidly, so your eyes have to work hard to process the changes, which can lead to eyestrain, pain, headaches, dry eye, and redness.
Smoking
Smoking ups your risk of losing your eyesight fourfold and even if you swerve complete vision loss, the chemicals you’re inhaling make you three times more likely to develop cataracts, according to a Harvard University study.
Sunglasses won’t just make you look good. Exposing your bare eyes to the sun is actually one of the most common things that damage your eyesight and it can have pretty serious consequences.
Whitening drops
Drops that reduce the redness in your eyes do so by restricting blood vessels temporarily that’s why your eyes will appear redder than ever when the effect wears off, and the blood vessels dilate. Definitely don’t make using whitening drops a habit.
Rubbing your eyes
As tempting as it may be, it’s a big no-no. Rubbing them too hard can break the blood vessels under the eyelids. So to soothe irritated eyes, try a cold compress instead.
Not eating well balanced diets
Yes — diet and nutrition matter. In fact, some fruits and vegetables are crucial for optimum eye health, especially ones with vitamins C and E, zinc, and omega-3 fatty acids.
The AAO suggests adding citrus fruits, vegetables oils, nuts, whole grains, leafy greens, and fish to your meals as much as possible.
Misusing eye makeup
Anything you put near your eye is a potential risk. And yes, this includes your mascara, eyeliner, eye shadow, and eye creams. So make sure to apply makeup far away from your lash line so you don’t block the oil glands of your lids — a build up here can cause infections.
Not getting enough sleep
Sleep deprivation can lead to a number of problems, including weight gain, depression, and decreased immune function. Moreover, a lack of sleep is also hurting your eyes (some symptoms include twitching, dry eyes, blurry vision, and pain). Be sure to get a minimum of seven hours a night and remember, put down that smartphone before bed.