The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has called for the scrapping of Big Brother Nigeria reality show, also called BBNaija because the show is misrepresenting the goodness and integrity of the Nigerian youths.
Instead, the Ooni advocated for a new show that will be more beneficial to the youths.
The Ooni spoke in Ile-Ife at an interaction with scores of youths who visited him as part of the celebration of International Youth Day.
He described the youths as the country’s untapped immeasurable wealth and resources and urged them to take leadership roles.
“Nigerian youths are fond of accusing and abusing our leaders. Stop abusing them. Contribute your own quota. Let’s wear our thinking caps and begin to act like the real future leaders that we are.
“In the last general election, the total number of votes cast was around 27 million while over 170 million people voted during the 2019 Big Brother Naija reality show.
He urged leaders of the National Youth Council of Nigeria to work out plans for the show, which will be called, “The Big Nigeria Reality Show”.
“The proposed show will be structured in a way that young professionals, talented individuals and others across several field of endeavour will be showcased and helped to reach their peak.
“This would help the participants and also help viewers to have access to people that can be seen as role models,” Ooni added.
The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, who was represented by Dr. Mariam Abdullahi, a Director in the Ministry, explained that the youths have major roles to play in the country’s development.
According to him, the digital literacy and skills acquisition, entrepreneurship, employability and leadership initiative of the Ministry are ongoing and all geared towards the development of our youths.
Representing Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun at the event, the state’s Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Mr. Yemi Lawal, explained that the youths have a lot to learn from the elders towards reaching their goals.
The founder of Elizabeth Jack-Rch Aid Foundation, who is equally the matron of the National Youth Council of Nigeria, Mrs. Elizabeth Jack-Rich was given an award for her role and stance as a mentor to the Nigerian youths.
Mrs. Jack-Rich had earlier expressed the readiness of her foundation to sponsor the reality show proposed by Ooni.
She admonished youths to ignore all forms of distraction and negative peer pressure on their way to success.