Share this on WhatsApp


“Chioma will never be David’s wife simply because she was Tobechukwu’s lover and was pimped to him. David is a daft kid. He cannot differentiate pussys and thus reportedly has 5 baby mamas. If he wants to marry that girl, he would have. He doesn’t love her a bit.”

The above statement is a tweet by Kemi Oluloyo. And this is coming out Months after she said she had put things behind her and forgiven singer Davido for insulting her in public.

The self-acclaimed Nigerian journalist, Kemi Olunloyo, has always supplied scoops about the Adelekes. She once said Davido’s mother was murdered by the family. As she returns to social media to take back her words and make it clear that she can never bring herself to truly forgive the singer.

Before today, Olunloyo in a post shared on her verified Instagram page called out the singer and his wife-to-be, Chioma Rowland, “I may have forgiven Davido to all of you but I haven’t forgotten how he insulted me and never said the one simple word for his tweet: SORRY! It was utter disrespect. I don’t forgive people. That is just a lie to pacify you. I just forget. I will truly NEVER FORGIVE DAVIDO PERIOD!”

The journalist also passed on her anger at Chioma. According to Olunloyo, if the celebrity chef steps on her toe, she will be mercilessly dealt with for the rest of the year.

Olunloyo also shared a screenshot of a post which was allegedly posted by Chioma on her Instastory channel. In the screenshot, Chioma talked about journalist coming after her family and she added that people will say she is being unfair if she gets Olunloyo arrested.

However, the journalist did not take the alleged post from Chioma lightly. She threatened to release a video of Chioma and singer Peruzzi Vibes where they allegedly got intimate with each other. Addressing the issue further, the journalist said she suspects the post was written by Davido.

She said: “Looks like Davido typed this. You two idiots just think because Ibiyeomie arrested me, anyone can. You think journalists make up stories. Some of you don’t even know why my case was withdrawn. Adeleke money cannot buy you a US visa nor prevent Coronavirus. Face your life and the marriage you are missing.”

So it’s been a heated back to back throw of jabs from Oluloyo.

The Pop music star, David Adeleke, a.k.a Davido has had to reply Kemi Olunloyo’s  continuous insinuations that his celebrated relationship with Chioma would end over infidelity issues.

Davido had kept silent on the matter for a long time before the controversial journalist, Kemi Olunloyo declared that Chioma broke up with him because he was expecting another child from a third babymama, lost his temper as he hurled insults on her when she once again said he was trying so hard to get over the emotional trauma.

“Close pals tell me Davido is trying hard to relax from the Chioma heartbreak by taking Jacuzzi baths for relaxation and posting several belated pictures in jets, parties etc. A close pal, D.B says he will be announcing soon that he has left the relationship and is moving on”, Kemi Olunloyo wrote.

Obviously pissed at Olunloyo’s guts, the ‘Dami Duro’ crooner replied her with insults.

“Old ass woman needs some dick. I can tell it’s been a while, you’re quite rusty down there, and it needs oiling”, Davido responded.”

Hurt by Davido’s choice of words to insult her, Olunloyo responded saying she was going to report him to his father, Deji Adeleke, whom she claimed is her childhood friend.

“I’m in tears as Davido says I need a dick! I’m calling Deji now to report him. Deji Adeleke is a childhood classmate back in the days aka Davido’s father. Omo rada rada being rude to me! His Illiterate fans don’t understand Journalism”, she replied.

There are people who concurs with Kemi’s recent allusions though, “I concur to this [because] the way Davido always press her breast in front of his friends is uncalled for, and Chioma will boldly post it on Instagram with caption “press it baby it’s all yours.”

Another tweet reads, “but you guys throwing insult at her for what she genuinely say is wrong, A man that loves a woman and wants to marry her would not disrespect her like that in public, one thing I know is that guys could be too careful when it comes to a woman they truly love…”


In an Instaletter recently penned by Ediale Kingsley. Where the writer celebrates the Adeleke’s addition of another private jet. It was clearly noted that Davido is still away from Social Media since June 3rd. 
 
See the letter here:



Dear Adelekes,

Which way?

Show us the way.

3 Private Jets.

This one just landed.

Davido would have had the honors of announcing this one.

He would have tweeted, “My baby just landed”.

And Nigerians would have hawked it to the east, north, west and back to the south.

Some will say ‘Davido isn’t rich enough to buy a jet’.

Others will say ‘you dont know how much Davido makes every weekend’.

The smartest ones would say ‘it’s his father’s property’.

But on the social media continent, the smart ones usually dont have the loudest voice.

But no Davido on the social media space to make the announcement.

So elder brother, chairman of HKN music, Adewale, had to make the announcement.

He also made it look like his own prop.

“…Brand new jet just popped in”.

Well. Technically it’s his own. When Baba Olowo dies the inheritance is his.

Now Davido is still away from Social Media since June 3rd.

He left social media with a warning.

“If you cant reach me. Dont reach me. I will contact you. All my life, I have put people before me…I think it’s time to actually live my life and take care of myself. I have changed my number. I needed some cleansing to do. Love you all”.

And this was just after he acquired the Banana Island prop. I remember Kemi Oluloyo went hard on the poor boy (poor? You know I dont mean poor per se).

Then, in a viral video here on social media, Kemi, labled Davido a disrespectful bastard and a liar. According to her Davido never paid a dime for the house on banana island.

She disclosed that the house is for his father and she has all evidences for that. She noted that she babysitted the “Fall” hitmaker when he was a kid and would soon share photos of him when he first landed in Nigeria at the age of 10.

Then, boom.

Davido dropped that mesaage and disappeared from social media. Maybe this was why. Maybe not.

Perhaps he felt someone from within gave Oluloyo that info. Or maybe he just wanted to focus on his life as he said.

Only God lknows.

But we have come to understand that Davido likes to announce his father’s props as his.

And the logic is acceptable.

Even though it could be misleading.

But do we miss Davido on the social space?

Is it not fair that nobody begged him to return.

Although he promised to return when he drops his next album.

Anyway, if you bump into Davido anywhere. Tell him Ediale misses him.

This is Lagos. It’s possible your car bashes his. Or his car runs into yours.

Before you even start to talk about who is wrong or right. Just say, “Ha, Davido, na you be this? See Ediale miss you o. He wants you to return to social media”.

Then you can resume the arguement on who bashed who.

It’s also possible to run into him at a very top rated function. Just tell him Ediale greets.

Help my hustle. He has changed his line. And it’s not as if we dont know where to find him. But remember, he said, “if you cant reach me, dont reach me”.

And as a young elder, I dont want a small big boy to “use me take shine'” (slang of life there).

Your Money spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: The guy sang songs, you guys said songs aren’t wriiten by him. He announced his jet, you guys said it’s his father’s. He announced his babe, you guys said she belongs to his artiste. He announced his house you guys said it’s not his own. Man was tired. Now that he has left social media, I hope when he comes back we wont say his posts aren’t his. Tough life for a celeb.

But I like Davido.




Share this on WhatsApp