Share this on WhatsApp 
From Irua to Ibore, Ewu, incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki was treated to a home coming by the grassroots population in Esan Land. The rural people acquainted incumbent Governor Obaseki that Edo Central is the home of PDP, assuring him that nothing has changed in the electioneering campaign for the September 19 governorship election in the state.
At Ward 10, Ugbegun, His Royal Highness S.I. Obade II; the Onojie of Ugbegun, the Idigun of Esan land, said to incumbent Governor Obaseki that his visit to the Kingdom reflected sheer fulfillment of all righteousness. The royal father emphasized that the projects sited by the governor, which include construction of roads in the locality, already showcased to the people the love the Governor has for them. The royal father, therefore, said that those projects have already concluded Obaseki’s campaign before his arrival, except, perhaps, to ask for more.
The traditional ruler declared: “You already know that we are for you. This is not about politics; you have earned the love and trust of the people with your outstanding performance. I can only pray for more wisdom, strength and protection upon you.”
Governor was overwhelmed by the genuine display of love by the mammoth crowd of supporters at the campaign venue in Wards 5 and 6. The crowd rented the airwave with shouts of  “Obaseki, we love you!”. National Daily gathered that exclamations became so loud and emotional, with deepening sentiments.
Again, Senator Ordia was imbued with  overflowing joy, acknowledging the show of love by his people; the lawmaker went into singing appreciate God; celebrating the end of a successful grassroots campaign tour of Edo Central.
The people gave the assurance to Governor Obaseki, declaring: “You can’t take it away from us, Edo Central is the home of PDP!” they proclaimed the message that “come September 19, 2020, Obaseki shall win Edo Central by landslide and also win the other two Senatorial Districts to return as the unmovable and unshakable Governor of Edo State.”
Share this on WhatsApp