The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may have unsettled President Muhammadu Buhari in its allegation of leaked video of plot to arrest leaders of opposition political parties using the federal might at the behest of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship election in Edo State. The Presidency in a statement on Tuesday indicated that such action is unthinkable at a time Nigeria is facing an insecurity crisis across the country.
Accordingly, the Presidency debunked the allegation that the ousted APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, plotted to arrest opposition members during Oshiomhole’s visit to President Buhari on Monday towards the Edo governorship election.
The PDP on Tuesday alleged the leakage of a video where Oshiomhole was telling Gambari they will have to use security operatives “arrest” traditional and political leaders in Edo State supporting Governor Godwin Obaseki before the closed door meeting with President Buhari.
The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement on Tuesday night, dismissed the PDP allegation as a “patchwork of mischief,” appealing to Nigerians to ignore the “misguided” statement.
The statement read in part: “It is equally a fact that various political parties campaigning in Edo have levelled accusations of violence against one another.
“In such a heightened state of uncertainty, responsible leadership must ensure that elections are conducted in a peaceful manner and if warranted, judicious use of Law enforcement to protect lives and properties of citizens is mobilized thus preventing criminal elements from subverting the democratic process.”
The presidency argued that Oshiomhole and Gambari with track record of working to ensure the rights of Nigerians are protected and the poor are not marginalized, “will not be found encouraging any conduct that runs counter to these values.”
Buhari’s commitment to free and fair elections was reiterated. “He does not support violence of any sort and its propagators will be brought to justice,” he added. “ELECTIONS MUST REFLECT THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE,” the statement further read.
The PDP had demanded President Buhari to order the arrest of Oshiomhole and Gambari for interrogation over the alleged plot for violence. The statement was, however, silent on this; though, the presidential media aide found solace in the defence of the two APC leaders.