Lagos State Governor and Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Council for Ondo State Governorship Election, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the party’s flag bearer, Rotimi Akeredolu, would emerge victorious in the October 10 poll.
Sanwo-Olu who disclosed this to newsmen at the party’s national Secretariat in Abuja after the inauguration of the 104-member National Campaign Council for the Ondo State governorship, said Akeredolu, enjoys the endorsement of the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the blessings of the entire party structure, from the national to the state level.
According to Sanwoolu, “The endorsement was not only his (Asiwaju Tinubu) endorsement but a collective endorsement. In this endorsement you saw Senator Borofice, you have seen our brother, Olusola Oke, you see meetings where Kekemeke was in attendance, and you see meetings where Dr. Abraham was in attendance.
“After the party they all came together even before our choice of the National Council. In Ondo State, they have resolved their problem themselves and all of them said we are supporting the candidacy of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu; so it is a unified thing.”
The campaign council chairman then said the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, are on a wild goose chase, advising them not to waste their time and energy as the people of the state have resolved to go for a progressive government.
Inaugurating the campaign council, the Chairman of the party, Governor Mai Mala Buni, said “I am happy to state that the chairman and members of the council were carefully selected based on their personal records of hard work, proven integrity and commitment to the ideals of our dear party.”
Buni then assured the people of the state that their investment in this election will consolidate the achievements recorded in the last four years. According to the party chairman, “I want to assure you that APC will not renege in its drive to build a peaceful and prosperous Ondo state that will be the pride of all.”