L
The World Bank project supervision unit in the Niger Delta in its observation last week on the Bretton Woods International projects ion Edo State tentatively exposed the identifiable deceit in the campaign communications of the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, the APC candidate in the Edo State governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and the party, itself, in portraying incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to have failed in the governance of the state in the past three and a half years. The World Bank contrary to criticism, commended Governor Obaseki for upholding transparency in governance and achieving in job creation for the youths in the state.
Apparently, the World Bank implementation support team, supervising implementation of State Employment and Expenditure for Results (SEEFOR), projects in the Niger Delta, had last week scored Edo State high on transparency and youths job creation under the leadership of Obaseki.
The team leader, Ismaila Ceesay, had on a visit to the Edo State Governor in Benin City, commended Governor Obaseki whom he said has done well in component A1 of projects of the Word Bank in the Niger Delta.
It was noted that Component A1 projects include creation of direct jobs for youths.
Ceesay had disclosed the World Bank team visited Edo State for assessment of the implementation of the components of the SEEFOR projects in the four selected states, which were identified to include Edo, Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers.
Ceesay revealed: “Edo is one of the four states that produce its financial statements and have them audited within six to seven months of the fiscal year and have the report published.”
The World Bank projects coordinator encouraged Governor Obaseki to continue his attitude of financial accountability and maintain his governance credential of a beacon of transparency in public finance. He further encouraged Governor Obaseki to ensure all segments of the projects are active till accomplishment in Edo State. He promised further cooperation with the state government in accomplishing the development projects.
Incumbent Governor Obaseki assured that the Edo State government would collaborate with the World Bank team for the development plans toward the reactivation of the Technical Vocational Education and Training, TVET, and FADAMMA projects.
Obaseki had disclosed that Edo State government fulfilled its obligation of paying over N400 million counterpart funding in his administration. He commended the World Bank for the $1.6 million disbursed for the renovation of the Benin Technical College.
several stakeholders in Edo State were of the view that the World Bank commendation of Governor Obaseki shows that the opponents may be misleading or deceiving the people of the state with false information in the campaign for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State.