The dream of Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi playing together at Barcelona may as well come alive in reality anytime soon if the pressure to bring both icons keeps pushing through.

And right now the pressure is getting to Ronaldo’s team and they have started speaking.

In the past couple of weeks Ronaldo was linked with a move to PSG and, following Juventus’ departure from the Champions League, he’s apparently been offered out elsewhere.

That offer has even included the potential of a shock move to Barca, signing for his former side’s fierce rivals and teaming up with his long term foe Messi.

Fans have also taken his tweet messages seriously. They are reading meaning to his vacation posts. Where he said “On board”. And in another post where he is pictured with his girlfriend.





In both photos, the Real Madrid star is seen wearing the Barca blue. Same color the girl friend wears as bikini.

All these are happening while another source close to the player says the rumours are “totally false.”

The source suspected to be a Juventus fan says “It’s not just Barcelona that won’t be signing the former Real Madrid star, the player and his family are happy in Turin and he has no intention of leaving.”

Now we await to see how things pans out when Barca take on Bayern Munich later tonight. Surely the result would affect the coming of Ronaldo to Barca.

Since Spanish journalist Guillem Balague still insists that Juventus wants to sell the player to reduce their wage bill.

The 35-year-old’s deal runs until 2022 and he reportedly earns around £28 million-a-year, which means he would earn nearly four times more than the club’s next top earner Matthijs de Ligt.

Ronaldo moved to Juventus in the summer of 2018, after winning a third Champions League in-a-row with the Spanish side and having become the club’s all time top scorer.

He was signed with the purpose of winning the European title for the Old Lady, who haven’t won it since 1996, but things haven’t gone according to plan.

Maurizio Sarri was given his marching orders last week after the Italian’s were knocked out in the last 16 of the Champions League by Lyon, just weeks after he won his first league title

Juve have replaced the former Chelsea boss with Andrea Pirlo, despite the club’s former midfielder having no experience in the role.