Share this on WhatsApp 
Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIODCOM), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa has warned Nigerian parents against sending their children to universities in Northern Cyprus.
Dabiri-Erewa who issued the warning on when she received in her office, a delegation led by Justice Amina Bello, mother of a Nigerian student, Ibrahim Khaleel Bello, who was allegedly killed in inexplicable circumstances in that country, said over 100 Nigerians, most of them students have been killed in mysterious circumstances in the Northern Cyprus.
The NIDCOM boss, who read out 15 names of Nigerians from a list of more than 100 who were killed in the country, said it was difficult to employ international diplomacy in investigation as the country was only recognised by Turkey.
“No Nigerian parent should send their children to any university in Northern Cyprus – there is a collaboration which we do not understand that makes them kill blacks, particularly our Nigerian students,” she said.
She assured the mother of the deceased student that the commission would work with her to demand justice, not only for her son but also for other Nigerians, who have been killed while studying in that country.
The NIDCOM chairman recalled that when she was a serving lawmaker and Sorewei’s killing was on the front burner in Nigeria, the school which seemed unapologetic about the killing had already sent its agents to lure more Nigerians with juicy scholarships.
She said that NIDCOM had met with the Ambassador of Turkey to Nigeria, who being new, said he was unaware of the killing but promised to look into the matter.
She added there were plans by NIDCOM to visit Northern Cyprus after the COVID-19 Pandemic to see things as clearly as they were.
She admonished Nigerians schooling abroad to make it a point of duty to always report to the Nigerian mission in that country upon arrival.
Speaking earlier, the mother of the late student said that she was yet to come to terms with the death of her son whom was reported to have committed suicide but circumstances showed otherwise.
She said that autopsy reports and investigations which she had requested in the past seven months were yet to come, adding that the school authorities were being evasive. She said that while she was told by authorities that her son jumped from the 7th floor of a building, there was no visible injury on his body or head to suggest that.
Share this on WhatsApp