Share this on WhatsApp 
The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council for the Edo State governorship election, Chief Dan Osi Orbih, at  the Governor Godwin Obaseki Re-election Campaign in Esan North East, Edo State, in Uromi on Thursday, Dan Osi Orbih, stated that the candidate (Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu) of a man (Adams Oshiomhole) who disrespected and maligned the person of enigmatic Chief Tony Anenih even in death, cannot be voted for by the Esan people in the Edo State governorship election.  Dan Orbih sounded out:
“Can you support a man who desecrated your traditional stool”; the crowd shouted “Nooo”!
Earlier, the Edo Central Campaign Director General of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Governor Godwin Obaseki’s re-election campaign, Senator Clifford Ordia, declared that Esan North East is the home of late Chief Tony Anenih, and that APC does not exist there. Ordia had in a media interaction before the arrival of Obaseki #Ward2Ward campaign team in the LG, declared: “I told some of our party Leaders before we arrived here that they should not expect to see anyone defecting from APC to PDP here because they don’t exist in this LGA.
“Before the demise of our National Leader, Chief Tony Anenih, Adams Oshiomhole publicly insulted him by calling him all manner of unprintable names. The same Oshiomhole desecrated Uromi traditional stool. How on earth will a sane person in this LGA support a man of that kind and the candidate he is projecting in an election of this magnitude? Such supporters must have been bewitched if at all they exist”.
National Daily gathered that subsequently at the Palace of the Ojuromi of Uromi Kingdom, the Onojie of Uromi, His Royal Highness Anslem Aidenojie Il, receiving  Governor Obaseki and his campaign team, assured them that they were on home coming mission, not just campaign visit.
Also, Orbih, PDP National Vice Chairman, South-South, narrated that Obaseki’s decision to lift the unconscionable suspension imposed on the Ojuromi of Uromi by Oshiomhole was Obaseki’s first major problem with Oshiomhole. Orbih maintained that a man with such questionable character should not have any business in directing the good people of Uromi Kingdom on who to vote for. He acknowledged that Esan has always voted for PDP, appealing to them not to disappoint the party in this election.
National Daily gathered that Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu electrified the campaign venue with display of anticipated victory in dance with “Pepe dem” song.
Governor Obaseki reassured the people of more development projects in his second tenure.
Moreover, the traditional ruler of Uzea, His Royal Highness, Solomon Itoya Ojiegbae, added to the royal prayers for Governor Obaseki in Esan Land,  promising the maximum support of his people for the incumbent  governor.
There were indications that the increasing adoption of Obaseki and the PDP closes the space, narrowing the support base for Ize-Iyamu and APC in the Edo governorship election.
Share this on WhatsApp