Prosecute 2 for attempted murder

The Police have commenced enforcement of six months imprisonment of persons who tested positive to coronavirus but refuse to comply with quarantine order. Refusal to self-isolate after testing positive to coronavirus is treated as attempted murder in the country.
Accordingly, the Police are prosecuting two men for attempting mass murder by defying the quarantine order of the government and continued going out in the public after they tested positive for coronavirus, putting other citizens at risk of infection.
It was gathered that the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele, had disclosed the prosecution of the two coronavirus carriers on Wednesday at a press conference in South African, putting the public on  notice about the enforcement of pending lockdown of the country to prevent the spread of the virus.
Bheki Cele declared: “If you break these laws of regulations you are six months in, or fined, or both.
“Two people have been charged already… who deliberately moved around after they were told not to.
“So, it’s not a fairytale to say the law will act and act very harsh on you.”
It was disclosed that the first case was a 52-year old salon owner diagnosed with coronavirus on March 18 and instructed to quarantine for at least 14 days.
Police spokesperson, Vish Naidoo, was learned to have said that local officials raised the alert on Tuesday after the man was seen around the western city of Ladysmith, in KwaZulu-Natal province.
“(He) allegedly continued with his business… and in doing so disregarded the instructions by a doctor,” Naidoo was gathered to have said, adding that the man had since been arrested and taken to hospital.
The second charge was said to be filed against a male tourist who tested positive for coronavirus  while on holiday at Kruger National Park.
Naidoo had explained that the man ignored instructions to remain in his hotel and went to the nearby town of Saint Lucia, where he interacted “with an unknown number of people”.
South Africa has recorded the highest cases of coronavirus infections on the African continent, with 709 confirmed cases.
President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a 21-day lockdown after the number of infections multiplied six-fold in eight days.
The police in a statement on Wednesday declared, “Only “essential” trips to grocery stores, pharmacies and medical appointments will be permitted during the lockdown, which will be enforced by army troops.
“The simplest and best way to combat the spread of the coronavirus is STAY HOME.
“It is exactly that stubborn behaviour that has caused us a national lockdown.”
The Nigerian government is yet to take similar far-reaching decision to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country; though, several states have gone ahead to enforce restriction of movements.
The number of confirmed cases has continued to rise daily, though, slowly.

			
			PV: 
			0