Thanks for the view.

Actually some of you were simply tasteful.

And as usual others were either dry or wrong.

But Gbemi. This outfit of yours seems like something you should wear to my apartment either first thing in the morning around 5:30 or 6:45 a.m. Just when the me in me is up by nature.

Or something you should wear to my door at night time. As a neigbour looking to come charge your phone at my place because your electricity connection in your apartment is faulty.

Yeah.

Something I’d see and say, “oh come in. Come see this book I have been dying to show you”.

I don’t know. But one idiot near me says you are dressed desperate. That you must be really looking for a husband.

But Gbemi is married.

But let’s assume she is not.

Gbemi is one of the most intelligent and down to earth power-lady I know in the creative industry.

She’s a boss at Naija FM and I think she will make a good wife. So I don’t think anything is wrong with her. I’d gladly put the ring on her.

So I wonder why would men not see her.

Then again…

Maybe it’s just something else. Perhaps she would  be too busy and won’t really have these ‘petty husband issues’ in her mind or radar.

I know most men are also scared of boss ladies.

I also know Nigerian guys are as bold and careless as anything.

So who would be scared to ask Gbemi hand in marriage?

I’d do it if I have the opportunity.

So could it be a fact? That she’s just flaunting her ‘assets’.

Good flaunting though, nice flashing. We see. We like.

Or I should speak for my self.

I see. I like. I don’t mind.

That doesn’t sound cocky, right?

I am just sincere.

But she is married.

Another idiot says, if she is married so her husband would allow her dress like this to such an event?

Well. I am not the husband. I answered the idiot.

But if I was. I’d beg her not to.

Beg, because these days. Everyone is preaching rights and equality.

Well, that’s that.

What was that Omashola was wearing?

I didn’t feel Diane’s outfit.

But I was jealous of Banky W.

I fancied Adesua’s outfit and ‘infit’.

Such body of perfection.

Such grace and beauty.

Where do they mold such human from?

So it was a Ramsey Nouah show.

Like my friend Oge Obasi would say, C.J Obasi has that magic touch.

Everything he touches turns gold.

From that Genevieve’s Lion Heart to now Ramsey Noah’s Living In Bondage.

Boy is doing stuff.

I am happy for Dimeji’ Ratnik too.

From the day I walked into Dimeji Ajibola’s production office with Saheed Apanpa I knew he was destined to do great stuff in Nollywood.

Dude is the ultimate filmmaker. He’s bringing a certain quality of Sci-fi films. And I like how he is doing it. We may end up having a Spiritual-Science-Fiction. And that’s so because of the way he is blending our cultural spiritism with customed heroism.

Ratnik is a good hope and sign that Nollywood will be greater than we thought it would.

And is there any better lady thespian than Toyin Abraham these days. That woman was born to act.

Well.

What a night!

Your AMVCA spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: Here is the full list of the AMVCA winners:

Best Makeup Category – Lilian Omozele Paul (God Calling)

Best Costume Designer – Dimeji Ajibola (Ratnik)

Best Picture Editor – Tosin Igho and Byryan Dike (Elevator Baby)

Best Sound Editor (Movie/TV Series) – Cristina Aragon (Living in Bondage)

Best Lighting and Designer (Movie/TV Series) – Cardoso (God Calling)

Best Cinematographer – John Demps (Living in Bondage)

Best Documentary – Beverly Naya (Skin)

Best Soundtrack (Movie/TV Series) – Larry Gaaga and Flavour (Living in Bondage)

Best Writer (Movie/TV Series) – Asinogu Nicole and CJ Obasi (Living in Bondage)

Best Indigenous Language (Movie/TV Series) Swahili – Raveet Sippy Chadha (Subira)

Best Indigenous Language (Movie/TV Series) Hausa – Muhammad T. Finisher (Tuntube)

Best Indigenous Language Movie/TV Series Yoruba – Yewande Famakin (Alubarika)

Best Indigenous Language Movie/TV Series Igbo – Victor Iyke (Nne)

Best TV Series Drama/Comedy) – Anis Halloway (Truth)

Best Short Film or Online Video – Bola ‘Enigma’ Akanbi (Thorn)

Best Multichoice Talent Factory Film – Promises (East Africa)

Best Movie Southern Africa – Dalitso (Abraham Kabwe)

Best Movie East Africa – Plan B (Sarah Hassan)

Best Movie West Africa – Living in Bondage (Ramsey Noah)

Industry Merit Award – Peter Igho

Best Supporting Actress in a Movie or TV Series – Gloria Sarfo (The Perfect Picture: 10 Years Later)

Best Supporting Actor in a Movie or TV Series – Pascal Tokodi (Disconnect) Best Actress in a Comedy (Movie/TV Series) – Funke Akindele (Moms At War)

Best Actor in a Comedy (Movie or TV Series) – Chibunna “Funny Bone” Stanley (Smash)

Best Actress in a Drama (Movie/TV Series) – Toyin Abraham (Elevator Baby)

Best Actor in a Drama (Movie/TV Series) – Timini Egbuson (Elevator Baby)

Best Dressed Male – Mike Edwards Best

Dressed female – Mercy Eke

Trailblazer Award – Swanky J.K.A

Best Director – Ramsey Noah (Living in Bondage)

Overall Movie – Living in Bondage







			
			PV: 
			0