While the Presidency has come out to exonerate President Muhammadu Buhari in the dethronement of Muhammadu Sanusi II as Emir of Kano by the Kano state government, a report by the committee set up to reconcile Sanusi and Ganduje at the heat of the rift, says the President had threatened to declare a state of emergency in the state if the matter was not resolved in time.
The face-off between Governor Umar Ganduje and deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, would have led to a state of emergency in Kano State.
The committee, headed by former Head of State, Abdulsalami Abubakar, disclosed that after it briefed Buhari on its initial findings, the president told it to warn both parties that he would impose emergency rule if the conflict snowballed to violence in Kano.
“After the inaugural meeting of the Committee, the need arose to brief Mr. President on the escalation of the crisis in Kano and three members were assigned to brief him,” the report read.
“He immediately said that a Presidential Jet could be made available for them to visit Kano with a clear message to the two parties that the President will not hesitate to declare a state of emergency in Kano should there be any breach of peace.
“Governor Ganduje was contacted and he informed the Committee that he was in Abuja and they arranged to meet him there. The Emir also flew to Abuja from Kano to meet the three members of the Committee.
“The three Committee members met the Governor and delivered the message of Mr. President on December 2, 20l9. Thereafter on the same day they also met the Emir with the same message.
“After delivering Mr. President’s message the three members called on the two parties to de-escalate the situation in Kano pending speedy reconciliatory meetings.
“The three members reported to Mr. President, the outcome of their mission as he had directed. They also issued a Press Statement on the need for both parties to maintain peace and stop any actions that will heighten the conflict.”
The report added that these engagements were to restore confidence and bring about hope of reconciliation and resolution of the situation.
The committee cited poor communication, new legislation on Kano emirates, Sanusi’s public utterances, and appointment of new emirs as major factors that fueled the crisis.
Meanwhile, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has written to the United Nations (UN) over the arbitrary detention and degrading treatment of Sanusi.
SERAP insisted that the continued detention after this banishment is a violation of his human rights.
The body urged the UN to immediately call the Nigerian government and Kano State authorities to order.

			
			PV: 
			0