Atiku Abubakar
        
 





Dear Atiku,

Your latest post of Medium is a hat trick. That is how to score a free kick. You just put the ball through the net. It’s a goal.

This is ‘presidential’.

I think it makes so much sense though. N10k for every single Nigerian is a good thing.

You have dropped N50m.

If Dangote, Otedola, Adeleke, Papa Adeboye, Bishop Oyedepo, Pastor Chris, Dr Olukoya, and Prophet T.B Joshua drop N50m each.

Then we may as well officially declare the stay home gig.

Here, I reproduce your piece below:

***
Coronavirus: Nigerians Deserve Palliative Measures.
By Atiku A.

As the coronavirus pandemic ravages the world, I applaud the various Nigerian state governments who have proactively taken measures, such as issuing stay at home orders, and shutting down non-essential markets and other places of mass gatherings, while also giving guidelines for social distancing.

However, we must accept the fact that much of the Nigerian public have a subsistence existence. A large percentage of our people do not have the financial capacity to withstand long periods of self-isolation and even lockdown. It is, therefore, incumbent on the Federal and state governments to provide palliatives to the Nigerian people to enable them to survive, even as they abide by these necessary measures put in place for their safety.

At an approximate 30 million households or thereabouts, the government should devise modalities to distribute N10,000 as a supplement for foodstuff to each household, among other palliative measures, with no one left behind.

It is thus time for the National Assembly to reconvene in an emergency session, perhaps by teleconference (in line with the demands of social distancing), to legislate a Stimulus Package Act that will cater for all Nigerian citizens.

I also call on all Mobile Telephony Companies in Nigeria to urgently develop mobile money platforms so that the government can reach the unbanked with financial assistance. I also urge these telecommunications firms to offer each of the 100 million mobile phone lines in Nigeria free credit of at least ₦1500 per mobile line, so that Nigerians who show symptoms, or those who just want information, can call the nearest available health facility, or even an ambulance service, as the case may be.

I commend all individuals and corporate organisations who have one way or the other provided some form of relief for the Nigerian people. In essence, this is what makes Nigeria great, when we help each other at such crisis times as this, irrespective of any differences. I further call on more corporations and individuals with capacity, to assist the public in these trying times.
To this end, Priam Group pledges N50 million on my behalf as my humble contribution to a relief Fund that will form part of the stimulus package.

***

Wow.

Knowing how this affects 2023. I won’t be surprise to read Tinubu donating N100m.

Let the donation party start!

Your Good Job spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: So now Nigerians your prayers are answered. Now for those asking for “Quarantine Money”. The money has landed.



			
			PV: 
			0