Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike on Saturday blasted his predecessor, Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, for defending a government, which, according to him, has totally failed the country, humanity and God.
Recall that had few days ago during an interview on AIT said that the kidnappers and insecurity have hindered projects in Rivers State.
However, Wike in a statement on Saturday, said he is only concerned about what he described as the unfortunate criminal excuse that Amaechi gave for the refusal of the Buhari Administration to initiate and execute Federal Projects in Rivers State.
“The lies told by Amaechi against his own people is one of the many deficiencies of southern politicians,” Wike said.
“It is disturbing that Amaechi still fits into the above category of hired hands despite using Rivers resources to fund the national campaign of APC in 2015 and serving as Director General of their campaign in 2019. It is regrettable that his relevance is tied to his capacity to run down his state and geo-political zone.”
Wike gave instances of other states in the Northern part of the country such as Kaduna and North east where bandits, kidnappers and insurgents have made their homes but yet there are presence of Federal Government projects.
He also recalled that just recently, the Minister himself allegedly escaped death in Kaduna when bandits chase him away.
“As I write, nobody plies the Abuja-Kaduna Route, yet the Federal Government executes projects in that insecure state. Bandits have turned Kaduna into a killing field, but Amaechi usually sneaks into Kaduna to serve as its public relations officer.
“Across the South-West, bandits reign supreme, kidnapping and robbing with careless abandon. An alternative security agency, Amotekun has been established. Yet, Amaechi’s second office, is Lagos where he briefs the media on per second basis, on the Lagos-Ibadan rail line commenced by the Jonathan Administration.
“The North-East is the Headquarters of insecurity in Africa. Aside propaganda and photo manoeuvres, there is no Government security control in several parts of this zone.
“But the Buhari Administration cited about three military Universities and other projects in this zone. Amaechi justifies the siting of these projects because they are in the north.
“While northerners at the Federal level scramble for projects to their states, Amaechi spends resources and time to explain why his constituents should not benefit from Federal Government’s patronage.”

			
			PV: 
			0