Presidential CoS Abba Kyari has given the details of his infection with Covid-19, and he encouraged Nigerians to follow the NCDC protocols.
His account of how he managed his infection could however baffle Nigerians who have followed his social activities since he came back from Germany where he likely caught the bug.
The CoS visited Kogi, attended meetings, mixed with governors, and others i the lead up to the confirmation of the virus six days ago, after infection three of his staffers.
In a statement he personally released to journalists Sunday, he  claimed he self-isolated himself, and never showed symptoms of infection.
He insisted he is as fit as a fiddle as he counsels Nigeria to be vigilant and compliant with authorities.
Unlike many public officials who like to ask Nigerians for prayers,  Kyari , in the letter, maintained his cool and trust in what his team can do.
Read the full text:
“I am writing to let you know that on medical advice, I will transfer to Lagos later today for additional tests and observation. This is a precautionary measure: I feel well, but last week, I tested positive for coronavirus, the pandemic that is sweeping the world. I have followed all the protocols government has announced to self-isolate and quarantine.”
“I have made my own care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures. Like many others that will test also positive, I have not experienced high fever or other symptoms associated with this new virus and have been working from home. I hope to be back at my desk very soon. I have a team of young, professional, knowledgeable and patriotic colleagues, whose dedication has been beyond the call of duty, who continue to work seven days a week, with no time of the day spared. We will continue to serve the President and people of Nigeria, as we have for the past five years.
“We should be calm, measured and diligent – be meticulous in your hygiene, especially with cleaning hands, if possible stay at home or keep your distance. Listen to good advice from the proper authorities: pay no heed to quack cures or fake news from social media. President Buhari will do whatever it takes to protect the health and safety of our people and get the country back on its feet as soon as possible.”
“Like the whole world, we are dealing with a new disease. Our experts are learning more all the time about coronavirus, what it does and how we can combat it. What we do know is that while some may become very sick, many others who contract the virus will not, and may have no symptoms at all. This is a disease that recognises no difference between north and south, men or women, rich or poor. We are all in this together,”

			
			PV: 
			0