Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday announced the setting up of N2 billion relief fund for victims of Sunday’s explosion at Abule Ado area of Lagos, Southwest Nigeria.
Massive explosion rocked Abule Ado area on Sunday, with 17 people reportedly dead and over 70 houses destroyed.
Sanwo-Olu, who visited the scene of the tragedy on Monday morning, said the state government would be committing N250 million to the fund immediately, while corporate organisations and spirited individuals were expected to support with donations for the victims of the explosion.
“I have set up Abule Ado Emergency Relief Fund; it is a N2 billion relief fund and the state government will immediately put in N250 million to that fund and overnight, I have gotten three banks to open account for that fund and what that are we trying to achieve?
“This is beyond what the state government can achieve on its own. This is beyond what a government, nation or state level can undertake on its own, I am aware that some of my fellow governors have called, and have also received phone calls from the private sector, so what this fund will do is to give everybody the opportunity to be part of it and to be able to donate into it.
“Of course, the utilisation of this fund, which will also be headed by the deputy governor will also be part of the responsibility the committee will be saddled with. Just to know we are serious and are committed to it. I have three account numbers already: I have the Polaris Bank, with the account number-4030017510 account name is Abule Ado Emergency Relief Fund,” he said.
Other account numbers are: Zenith Bank, with account number-10171845716 and GTB, with account number-0568615688.
Sanwo-Olu also inaugurated a fact-finding committee to investigate the cause of the incident, saying that the committee was expected to submit its report in two weeks’ time.
He governor told the residents that his administration was working with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and the National Emergency Management Agency {NEMA] to make life easier for the victims.
According to him, “we are working with NEMA, NNPC and other agencies to make life easier to everyone affected in the tragic incident at Abule Ado, which claimed lives and caused extensive property damage. I offer my condolences to everyone affected.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0