President Muhammadu Buhari is raising hope of stable electricity supply and overall development of the power sector in Nigeria after 17 years of the failure of DISCOs. To achieve the goal, the federal government signed six years contract with Siemens AG, a German firm, for effective Generation, Transmission and Distribution of at least of 25,000 megawatts of electricity by the year 2025.
While the foreign contract has been generating  uprising and protest  by the GENCOs and DISCOs who are likely to go into extinction when Siemens begins operation, the President set up a review committee head by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in addition to the committee set up by the National Executive Council which has Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State as chairman.
To cement the contract with Siemens in spite of threat of legal suits by the DISOCs and its allied association, the Chief of Staff to President Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, on Monday led a delegation of the Federal Government of Nigeria to hold a meeting with the Executive team of Siemens AG on Monday to consolidate agreement on a contract deal of electricity generation, transmission and distribution in Nigeria.
Abba Kyari accompanied by the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, for the meeting with the Executive team of Siemens AG which held in Munich, Germany on Monday.  They were joined by the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Amb. Yusuf Tuggar, at the meeting.
The Office of the Minster of Power in a statement on Monday confirmed the visit of the Nigerian delegation to Germany for the meeting.
The minister’s office noted that the federal government recently signed a six year contract with the German company which will result in the effective Generation, Transmission and Distribution of at least 25,000 Megawatts of electricity by the year 2025.
While the contract may face out the DISCOs, Siemens is expected to bring effectiveness and efficiency into the power sector that will improve electricity supply and go down in history as Buhari’s achievement and legacy.
 

			
			PV: 
			0