The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday decried that the judgement of the Supreme Court on the Imo State governorship election review suit tacitly endorsed electoral fraud.
PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, protested that the judgement of the Supreme Court reflected “a disconcerting endorsement of electoral fraud,” noting that the judgement has placed a huge burden on the court and the justices.
The PDP, however, acknowledged that Justice Nweze’s dissenting judgment presented a glimpse of hope for the nation’s judiciary. It noted that Nweze’s judgement treated facts, which the party said is sacred.
“Our party abides completely by every word of the judgment of Justice Nweze as treated facts, which are truly sacred.
“Justice Nweze’s pronouncement, which went straight into the substance of our application represents a universal view about the travesty of justice that occurred in the Imo State governorship election judgment.
“It is, indeed, unfortunate that the Supreme Court had the wholesome opportunity to redeem itself and correct its errors but chose to hide behind technicality to justify and endorse an electoral fraud,” PDP declared.
The party remarked that Nigerians expected the Supreme Court to correct the errors made earlier and handed over victory to the supposed rightful winner.
PDP stated that the court failed to summon the courage to affirm its infallibility but upheld and legalise the writing of election results by individual contestants against the will of the people as expressed at the poll.
The PDP further declared: “This judgment will continue to haunt the Supreme Court. It has created a burden of precedence and fallibility on the court.
“More distressing is the fact that the judgment has heavily detracted from the confidence Nigerians and the international community reposed on the Supreme Court and our entire jurisprudence.”
The Supreme Court had on Tuesday dismissed the application filed by Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP seeking a review of the judgement which removed him from office after about 10 months.
Ihedioha challenged the declaration of Hope Uzodinma as the Imo State governor after the Supreme Court adopted controversial results which figures showed over voting.
The application was dismissed in a majority judgement of a seven-man panel of judges led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad. Six of the judges on the panel agreed with the Supreme Court judgement while Justice Chima Nweze gave a dissenting judgment, stressing that the decision ought to be reviewed.

			
			PV: 
			0