Genevieve Nnaji Vs Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde

Their rivalry is legendary. The cause of it no one can tell but what is obvious is that the two leading women in Nollywood are not the best of friends. As a matter of fact, they view each other with suspicion. A pal of both divas attributed the source of the hostility to Omotola who “did not in anyway encourage Genevieve when she was starting out”. Another accused Genevieve of “not according Omotola her due respect as someone she met in the industry”.

The pal, who like the two, is also an actress says: “Both of them dislike each other so much that they almost scuttled the set of the hugely popular movie, Ije.”

However, time and maturity have toned down the intensity of the hostility. But fans of the pair are still unrelenting as they continue to gun for each other’s jugular anytime the opportunity presents itself.

Davido Vs Wizkid

The battle of supremacy started a long time ago between Davido and Wizkid. Both musicians, who once enjoyed a smooth friendship before the rivalry start­ed, recently went on twitter to exchange some pretty hard words.

According to Davido popularly known as OBO, Wizkid started it all when he threw shades at him via his twitter handle concerning his concert abroad. In a recent interview with Sahara Reporters, Davido said he has nothing against Wizkid, add­ing that he is a big fan of him but pleaded that Wizkid should stop throwing shades at him.

A few days after the interview, however, Wizkid took to his twitter handle and sub­tly called Davido “a dumb”, accusing him of misinterpreting his tweets and being insensitive – and “catching feelings”.

BasketMouth Vs Julius Agwu

The comedians have made up with each other but many describe their friendship as “mere cosmetic” since they still view each other with suspicion. The cause of their ‘fight’ is attributed to petty rivalry, which developed into a major ‘beef’. The two avoided each other for many years until they were reconciled last year. Julius said in an interview recently that some people in the industry “don’t want to see the two of them together because of pe­culiar gains”. He later told this writer that both of them had since made up and that the industry would soon see them doing a lot more together.

Funke Akindele Vs Odunlade Adekola

Popular actors, Odunlade Adekola and Funke Akindele are not friends and they don’t pretend about it. The alleged cause of the hostility was the appointment of Odunlade as Globacom ambassador. According to a source, Funke Akindele would have preferred another actor, Funsho Adeolu, to be made an ambas­sador. She was reported to have told some colleagues that Odunlade was not educated and therefore may not be able to express himself properly. Odunlade got to know about Funke’s antics and hasn’t forgiven her till today. To worsen the matter, Odunlade’s contract with Glo was not renewed while Funke remains an ambassador with the telecommunications company.

Olamide Vs Linda Ikeji

Popular rapper, Olamide doesn’t like Linda Ikeji and he’s not hiding it. Recently, the blunt rapper took to his social media account to blast the blogger for posting a story that his girlfriend was pregnant. He used so many unprintable words to describe Linda. And so much was his vituperation that many began to wonder if there wasn’t other thing behind it all. But there was.

According to a source, Olamide had accused Linda of not lending any form of support to his career on her popular blog. He was said to have complained bit­terly to a close friend of the blogger. Yet, she did not do anything about it. Since then, both Olamide and Linda have not been on speaking terms.

Monalisa Chindah Vs Rita Domi­nic

Not many knew that Rita Dominic, Monalisa Chinda and Genevieve Nnaji used to live together. That was when the actresses developed a strong friendship that was nurtured for several years. But the once bosom friends are no longer chubby. Things have gotten so bad that Rita and Monalisa don’t

Though, Tonto won the award, Ini Edo refused to respond to her tweets.

K1 Vs Obesere

The animosity between the two fuji mu­sicians is legendary. King Wasiu Ayinde popularly known as K1 de Ultimate be­lieves that Obsesere, a fellow fuji singer, has been disrespectful and is always too quick to throw a jibe at him. Both have sung several hate songs against each other, but some believe K1 is having the upper hand. When K1 sang ‘Eyin Mama Esempe’ (elderly women slow down), Obesere accused him in a song of being disrespectful to women. Though, the two have simmered down, the hostility most definitely continues.

Iyanya Vs Yvonne Nelson

Iyanya’s hit song, ‘All I Want Is Your Waist’ was not only inspired by his love affair with the beautiful Ghanaian actress cum producer, Yvonne Nelson, but it also spewed up hot details about their rela­tionship that ended after she allegedly caught him cheating on her. Iyanya had denied being in any kind of relationship with Yvonne until she released pictures to prove otherwise. The actress told every­one who cared to listen how much she loved him and how he broke her heart. But it seems Iyanya on the other hand just wanted Yvonne’s ‘waist’. They obviously wanted two different things.

Nse Ikpe Etim vs Emem Isong

They were bosom friends and business partners but the love they once shared has turned into another thing. Emem, who featured Nse in her movie, Reloaded (a film that re-launched Nse’s career), is an­gry that the actress has been going around spreading negative tales and talking down on her works. Emem sent Nse an angry mail, which she also responded to with an­ger, and till date they are sworn enemies. Now, it may take long before movie fans see Nse in Emem’s production.

Mercy Johnson Vs Tonto Dike

Young and daring, Tonto was always quick to call out Mercy Johnson negative­ly. But recently, she got it wrong when she slammed Mercy for returning to location too soon, six months after giving birth to her daughter, Purity. Tonto alluded that Mercy’s husband must be incapable of tak­ing care of her. Mercy did not say a word but her fans went for Tonto’s jugular, and not a few people believed Tonto went too far. Rather than apologise, Tonto denied ever making reference to Mercy. Today, both actresses are not on speaking terms.

Seun Kuti Vs Flavour

Seun, son of Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti recently took a subtle swipe at Afropop star, Flavour on twitter over his emergence as the Best Live Act at this year’s MTV Africa Music Awards. While claiming that he has done 66 live shows this year alone, Seun insinuated that Flavour did not deserve to win such an award. Though, Flavour refused to dignify the Afrobeat musician with a response, a source confirmed that they are not the best of friends.

			
			PV: 
			0