reinstates suspended,deposed lawmakers 




By Olanrewaju Adesanya 

The Lagos State House of Assembly has officially reconstituted the standing committees, to reflect the reabsorption of erring members.
Information gathered from a very reliable source,revealed that the committee reconstitution was sequel to a meeting initiated by the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who just returned from his overseas trip.

Tinubu was said to have intervened at a parley where the affected lawmakers were also present after which an internal memo,signed by the Clerk of the house Mr. Azeez Sanni, officially communicating the committee reconstitution.


The memo reads,” Following the approval of the Leadership of the House,please be informed that the following house committee have been reconstituted with effect from Friday,20th,March 2020.”

It would be recalled that weeks back,disciplinary measures were said to have been taken by the leadership of the house to curtail acts regarded as insubordination,capable of destabilizing the institution.

Consequently, four lawmakers who were high ranking in the legislative parlance got caught in the web.

They were; Hon. Rotimi Abiru,  the Chief Whip representing Shomolu Constituency II,Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh,the Deputy Majority leader representing Apapa II,Hon. Moshood Oshun representing Lagos Mainland II and formerly Chairman House committee on Public Account State and Hon.Kazeem Raheem Ibeju Lekki II,Chairman House committee on Special Duties and Intergovernmental relations.

The stated legislators,two of whom were formerly principal officers got demoted to ordinary members via the concurrence of 26 members of the law making body,while the other two were suspended indefinitely following the invocation of the house rules and ethics by Rt.Hon.Mudashiru Obasa.

The reconstitution of the few committees had the former Chief Whip who in time past, chairs the ethics and privileges committee of the house and a fourth termed lawmaker,now to chair Inter parliamentary committee formerly chaired by Hon.Fatai Oluwa, who now chairs Tourism,Arts and Culture.

Formerly,Deputy Majority Leader Hon.Olumuyiwa Jimoh is now to chair the Central Business District committee,while Hon(Mrs)Mojisola Alli-Macaulay now chairs Women Affairs,Poverty Alleviation and Job Creation.

Hon Oshun now to chair house committee on Legislative Compliance formerly chaired by Hon Rauf Age-Sulaimon,who now chairs Procurement committee.

Hon. Solaja-Saka Nurudeen who formerly chairs Tourism committee is to chair Public Accounts Committee (State).

Hon. Kazeem Raheem who formerly chairs Special Duties committee is now to chair Establishments,Training and Pensions,where Hon. Makinde Rasheed recently held sway.

Makinde now chairs Special Duties and Intergovernmental relations.

It is however,worthy of note that two lawmakers;Hon.Mojisola Meranda from Apapa constituency I,was made the Chief Whip and Noheem Adams who was through a bye election admitted into the lawmaking body few years back as a replacement after the demise of the Eti-Osa1 constituency legislator, late Kazeem Alimi,became the lucky one to be raised to the Deputy Majority Leader position.











			
			PV: 
			0