The Chairman, Reconciliation Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bisi Akande, says this is not the best of times for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) following the leadership crisis rocking the party.
Recall that a Federal Capital Territory, FCT, High Court had recently suspended Oshiomhole pending the determination of a suit seeking his removal as National Chairman of APC.
But, a Kano Federal High Court set aside the ruling and ordered Oshiomhole to resume office.
In a statement he personally signed on Sunday, Akande berated members of the party over increasing number of court cases within the fold, pointing to the party’s constitution which is being undermined by members who decide to approach the court.
He warned that aggrieved members of the party should allow the committee do its work, and stop seeking judicial intervention in matters under the purview of the special committee.
“I have noticed with growing concern the increasing number of court cases being filed pertaining to disputes regarding the leadership of our party, the All Progressives Congress.
“I do not know the motivations behind this litigious conduct. It is not in my nature to ascribe negative or harmful motives to anyone. Those seeking access to the courts to decide what basically politic questions are perhaps think they are doing the right thing. If this is the case, I must state that they are innocently in error.
“I must remind party members the party constitution requires that all internal dispute resolution measures be exhausted before a member carries a matter to court. I dare say this provision has not been honoured either in spirit or in letter by those initiating these court cases seeking to oust party officials.
“More specifically, along with several other respected party members, I have been appointed as a member of the party’s special reconciliation committee. I have been given the further honour to be the committee chairman.
“This committee was the product of discussion and deliberation of party organs such as the NWC and NEC. No one has contended that this committee was improperly established.
“The committee mandate was to investigate and submit recommendations regarding the dispute in Edo state involving National Party Chairman Oshiomole and Governor Obaseki as well as inquire into disputes in other states that might weaken the party.
“To do this even before the committee has had time to do and finish its work not only insults the committee, it offends the NWC, NEC and the entire party. Consequently, I call on all party members to honor the rightful and correct decisions of the party leadership.
“For members to act otherwise would be to discard the party constitution and ignore the tenets of deliberation and compromise upon which all successful political parties are founded.”





			
			PV: 
			0