The continual debate over Paul Pogba’s Manchester United future has dominated the media space for time immemorial.
Pogba’s United future has remained a subject of speculation lately
Many were forced to question the Frenchman’s commitment to the Red Devils due to his erratic attitude and comment coupled with the recent comments from his Italian super-agent Mino Raiola.
Pogba’s transfer away from Old Trafford has remained a subject of speculation with the World Cup winning midfielder doing less to calm the gossip by pledging his commitment to United outrightly National Daily has observed.
However, the Red Devils can finally forge ahead without the distractions that go with Pogba’s speculations when they get a perfect replacement for him.
A former Old Trafford favourite Lee Sharpe can see the Frenchman leaving the club this summer, with an Aston Villa talisman waiting in the wings National Daily learnt.
According to Sharpe, Manchester United will only bring in Jack Grealish if they feel the need to replace Paul Pogba. For him, there is no possibility of the two men playing together in Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s starting XI.
Grealish can be a superb addition to United squad with Pogba’s exit
Though Pogba has endured a hugely frustrating 2019-20 campaign at Old Trafford, with a persistent ankle issue significantly restricting his contribution to United’s cause, but it seems that the best for United will be permitting the Frenchman desire to go enjoy his new challenges.
United have already proved they can cope without Pogba pulling the strings in the middle of the park, and the winter market addition of Bruno Fernandes from Sporting appears to have lifted the mood at the club heading into the business end of the season.
Solskjaer has been tipped to bring in Villa playmaker Grealish to play alongside Fernandes, with Sharpe insisting that such a scenario would see Pogba heading for the exit doors at Old Trafford.
Grealish potential arrival at Old Trafford would not only save United from the distractions that come with Pogba’s continual transfer speculations, but it will also help them build a committed squad that believe in their project.
Though there is no doubt about Pogba’s quality, but many United fans have grown weary of his antics and have previously demonstrated their readiness to see the end of his distractions at Old Trafford as they will embrace it as a good riddance to a bad rubbish.

			
			PV: 
			0