1. Wizkid – joro

Let’s come to think of it what’s the meaning of joro. Perhaps wizkid has us in his spell. This must be some   juju stuff over us.

“joro joro baby ya joro”

Do you know when wizkid was asked in an interview what the meaning of joro is, he couldn’t explain?

2. The Mavins – Dorobucci

“Doro na diva, doro bad doro geti money doro megasuperstar oo yeh”

With all this attribute given to doro what’s the meaning of “DOROBUCCI”?

We still don’t know.

3. ID Cabasa ft Wizkid, Olamide – Totori

This song is a whack how does it become a hit song would beat your imagination.

“totori one time tor, totori two time tor tor, totori me three time tor tor tor”.

4. Kcee – Limpopo

“Oya limpopo baby make wey go Limpopo am going crazy to night lemme be your maga”.

Sweet song, you love this song but come to think of it what is limpopo?

6. Olamide ft Don jazzy – Skelemba

Skelemba skelante…

But again what is the meaning of these slangs?

7. D prince – Banana

The only thing I can hear in this song is “take banana till you go you” I think it over 150 times that line was mentioned. How come it became an hit song?

8. Naira Marley – Soapy

“Won tese lebo Yahoo ni babalawo ole ni everybody eniti ile bamo sha barawo, Oya Jo soapy soapy”.

When it comes to Naira Marley music, just have it at the back of your mind that you are having whack songs. Soapy???

9. Rema – Beamer (Bad boys)

Right from the year 2016 Nigerian artistes have been using the word “BEAMER”. What does Beamer mean?

10. Davido – Skelewu

When this song came out I was like skele lelewu skelewu to the back and your front skelewu. But my people what’s does it mean?

11. D’banj – koko

D’banj and Don jazzy never told us the meaning of this word “KOKO”. In that hit song they keep saying:

D’banj: Make you tell them the Koko ahh make you tell them the koko.

Don jazzy: If I tell them the Koko, I say make I yan them the Koko.

Now what the meaning of the Koko, or is it a secret thing that shouldn’t be exposed.

12. Naira Marley-  Tingasa

Uhmm this guy again drop another hit song called “TINGASA”. what is the meaning of this whack song. Every whack song he drop is a hit. From soapy to this so called TINGASA, we still don’t know the exact meaning of it.

13. Tekno – Skeletun

Its not a new thing seeing alhaji tekno with whack lyrics right from his song duro, with rubbish lyrics that goes this way “if you like mathematics I will teach you karate ” what a whack, also the so called SKELETUN sef na whack.

Nigeria and it so called whacked artistes dropping rubbish calling that hit song, gone are days in the liking of fela, barrister, sunny ade,ebenezer obey, lucky dube, Bob Marley.







			
			PV: 
			0