The Ekiti state government has imposed a 12-hour curfew on movements within the state, in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in Ekiti state.
Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who made the announcement on Sunday, said the curfew will restrict movements on the movement of persons and goods, for an initial period of fourteen days
The governor also noted that all land borders have been shut and travelers are expected to remain in their current locations for the duration. Only vehicles bringing in fuel, foods, drugs and other essentials will be allowed into the state.
By this directive, all forms of religious, social or political gatherings have also been banned, as churches, mosques, night clubs, and bars are expected to be locked down for the period. Where any gathering is to be held out of necessity, attendance will be restricted to 20 persons.
Fayemi added that defaulters would be sanctioned with heavy fines or 6 months imprisonment
“Any person who contravenes these regulations shall be guilty of an offence and, on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment” the governor stated.
Governor Fayemi noted that it would be a great discomfort but urged the residents of the state to adhere to it in order to stay healthy and alive.
 
 
To make the period easier for citizens, the government introduced certain palliatives including an advance payment of March 2020 salaries to civil servants, and reactivation of the Ekiti State Food Bank to provide food items to the poor and vulnerable families in Ekiti state.
“The State Government will consider providing a stipend to our self-employed citizens whose daily income will be interrupted at this time as subsidy for their loss of income. I have directed the Commissioners of Finance and Budget to advise on the amount the State can afford in view of our dire financial constraints.
He encouraged the people not to panic or spread rumours but to adhere to the directives so that the pandemic could come to an end very soon.
“Government is determined to ensure we stop its spread. You also must be determined to do your part,” he added.





			
			PV: 
			0