The Nigeria Football Federation has seized the opportunity of the postponement of the Nigeria versus Sierra Leone double header to seek for new Eagles coach who replaces Gernot Rohr.
Recently, there has been fallout between Franco-German tactician and his employer. Rohr contract expires in June and the 2021 AFCON qualifier between Super Eagles and the Leone Star is already postponed, this gives the federation the opportunity to talk contact a new coach for the Super Eagles.
The NFF has been reluctant to hand the coach a new contract with his current deal expiring in June and it has become evident the federation’s chieftains are unimpressed with Rohr’s work so far as they have become successful in their quest to get a replacement for the German.
National Daily learnt that Federation in the coming days would formally inform the coach his services would not be needed after the expiration of his current deal.
According to ex international who spoke with our reporter at the National Stadium recently said that Rohr is not what Super Eagles need ,we need a change .
It was also gathered that the NFF’s chieftains would have informed Rohr to go ,but were constrained by the African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Sierra Leone which was initially scheduled to take place on March 27 and April 2.
“The NFF has been talking to some coaches,” a source in the Federation reliably told our correspondent. “They would have formally informed Rohr his services would no longer be needed but they have been unable to get a replacement all the while. However, I can tell you that they have had a verbal agreement with a coach and with the AFCON qualifiers postponed, the future of the future of the team regarding the handler will be sorted out very soon.
Another source told our correspondent that Rohr’s situation has not been helped by the fact that he has not been able to convince the sports minister Sunday Dare about his ability to take the team to the next level.
“The minister is not a big fan of Rohr; he is not convinced about the ability of the coach to handle the team and the NFF are also working on the body language of Minister Dare regarding the issue,”

			
			PV: 
			0