Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, the running mate of the APC candidate David Lyon, winner of the last guber election in Bayelsa the Supreme Court sacked for certificate forgery, is about to to do himself in.
In an interview on Channels Tv on Monday, Timipre Silva, the minister of state for petroleum resources and leader of the APC in the state, revealed the life-and-death situation the apex court decision pushed Degi-Eremienyo into.
“I’m dealing with a former Deputy-Governor that is on the verge of committing suicide. Every day I have to call to find out that he hasn’t done anything to himself,” he said.
The mnsiter believed the court was all out against the APC by failing to call witnesses to establish the claims that the former APC deputy governor-elect allegedly forged his certificate.
“If someone said you forge your certificate and you have built your life and integrity and someone all of a sudden brings everything down, that can lead to suicide.”
According to him, it’s all a fifferent ball game if anyone has a case in court challenging the authenticity of the certificate of a candidate.
“But if you say it is a case of forgery and you have not heard from the person concerned then you have not established anything.
”You haven’t gone to school or university where this person studied to confirm the veracity of the allegation but you already condemn the person. It’s is very sad and dangerous.”
Sylva further explained that APC approached the Supreme Court for a review because its candidate was wrongly accused, and that the apex court should have disqualified the APC deputy candidate and allow David Lyon to be sworn-in because the lower court did not disqualify him.
“The Supreme Court should have the courage to revert itself. It has happened before.”
The sacked deputy governor’s governor worries may hve escalated following the refusal of the apex court to consider the review application the APC and its candidates filed through two of Nigeria’s most senior lawyers Afe Babalola and Wole Olanipekun.
The court would rather slam the two lawyers with a fine of N60m for daring to hold such briefs.

			
			PV: 
			0