The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday expressed shock, as well as grief-stricken over the devastating explosion in Abule-Ado, Lagos State, on Sunday, which resulted in the agonizing death of innocent citizens while injuring and rendering many more homeless.
The PDP particularly expressed wariness over the spate of explosions and other avoidable disasters, particularly, in Lagos and other strategic states, adding that this raises grave public safety concerns in the nation’s commercial nerve centers.
The party recalled that only in January, a pipeline explosion rocked Abule-Egba in Lagos State in which compatriots were killed in an inferno that razed valuables and brought anguish to many families.
The PDP, therefore, called for a review of the national emergency response in a manner that will educate Nigerians on how to prevent disasters.
The party was of the view that such an overhaul of the nation’s emergency management must strengthen quick responses to disasters by respective agencies of government and volunteer groups.
The PDP insisted that drastic measures must be adopted to check recurring disasters in the country.
The party lamented that the explosion has again brought sorrow, anguish, and pain to families who are now suffering bereavement, injuries, homelessness, loss of property and means of livelihood.
The PDP decried that it is grieved by the traumatizing effect of the explosion on a school, which killed the school principal, Revd. Sister Henrietta Alokha, and injured many of the students.
“Our party notes the heroic service rendered by Revd. Sister Alokha in saving no fewer than 300 students and losing her own life at the end,” PDP declared in a communique on Monday.
The PDP advised the Federal Government to confer a worthy posthumous recognition in honour of Revd Sister Alokha.
While deeply commiserating with the victims of the explosion, the party urged relevant authorities as well as public-spirited individuals, groups and establishments to come to the aid of all those affected.
The party called on all Nigerians to remain vigilant and continue to pray for divine intervention on the nation at this trying time.

			
			PV: 
			0