National Daily understands that Chelsea’s players were ordered not to turn up for training on Thursday amid a coronavirus scare.
According to the report from The Athletic, someone ‘close to the squad’ complained they were suffering with COVID-19-like symptoms and a decision was made on Thursday morning to cancel training National Daily learnt.
However, the report claims that the unidentified person has not yet been diagnosed with coronavirus. The players are due to train on Friday ahead of their upcoming Premier League clash against Aston Villa on Saturday.
Lampard will however still have his pre-match press conferences as scheduled
It was understood that the club’s Cobham training facility is set to undergo a deep cleanse as a precaution, but Frank Lampard’s pre-match press conference is scheduled to go ahead as planned tomorrow National Daily further gathered.
Recall that Chelsea’s Champions League fixture against Bayern Munich next week has already been scheduled to be played behind closed doors.
In a similar sad vein, manager of Premier League rivals Leicester, Brendan Rodgers, revealed on Thursday that three of his players were currently in self-isolation having been suffering with symptoms.
UEFA Champions League fixture between City and Real Madrid is facing severe jeopardy
More so, Manchester City’s Champions League clash, meanwhile, with Real Madrid is in severe jeopardy with the Spanish club in lockdown after one of their basketball players was struck down with the virus. La Liga has been suspended for two weeks, while UEFA will hold an emergency meeting on Tuesday to address the fate of this season’s major European competitions.
A statement read: ‘In the light of the ongoing developments in the spread of COVID-19 across Europe and the changing analysis of the World Health Organisation, UEFA has today invited representatives of its 55 member associations, together with the boards of the European Club Association and the European Leagues and a representative of FIFPro, to attend meetings by videoconference on Tuesday 17 March to discuss European football’s response to the outbreak.
Discussions will include all domestic and European competitions, including UEFA EURO 2020. ‘Further communication will be made following those meetings.’
What a terrifying global moment for sports and well-being.

			
			PV: 
			0