By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Lagos State House of Assembly has moved for the removal of its Chief Whip,Hon. Rotimi Abiru and the Deputy Majority Leader, Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh over gross misconduct and activities that undermines the sanctity of the house,two other lawmakers were also suspended.

Two members of the House, Hon. Moshood Oshun (Lagos Mainland Constituency 2) and Hon. Kazeem Raheem Adewale (Ibeji Lekki Constituency 2) were suspended indefinitely during plenary on Monday.

In announcing the suspension of the members, the Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa stated that the House is the hope of the people and the heartbeat of democracy and that it should be well guided.

“I hereby invoke Section 68 and Section 70 4 (a, b) 2 and 3 of the House rules in respect of gross misconduct, insurbodination and action that can destablise this House i hereby move that Hon. Moshood Oshun and Hon. Raheem Adewale be placed on suspension indefinitely,” the Speaker said.

The two decisions were supported through voice votes by the members present during plenary.

The request for the removal of the two Principal
Notice and change in the leadership was contained in a letter read on the floor of the House by the Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni.

Mr. Sanni stated that the 26 members that signed the letter wished to notify the House “to change the leadership of the House including, Hon. Rotimi Abiru as the Chief Whip and Deputy Chief Whip, Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh.”

The letter notifies the house about the change of leadership in tandem with the house rule 35,stating the resolve of the listed members who constitutes a simple majority of the house resolves to change the Chief Whip and Deputy Majority leader.

The list of 26 members that signed the removal of the two leaders are;Hon.Victor Akande,Hon.Sentoji David,Hon.Nureni Akinsanya,Hon.Noheem Adams,Hon.Saka Solaja,Hon.Lanre Afinni,Hon.Fatai Mojeed,Hon.Rotimi Olowo,Hon.Makinde Rasheed,Hon.Adedamola Kasunmu,Hon.Temitope Adewale,Hon.Desmond Elliot and Hon.Jude Idimogu.

Others are Hon.Olawale Olayiwola Abdul Sobur,Hon.Ajayi Owolabi,Hon Lukmon Olumoh,Hon.Kehinde Joseph,Hon.Tijani Suraju,Hon.Mojisola Alli-Macaulay,Mosunmola Sangodara,Hon.Hakeem Sokunle,Hon.Gbolahan Yishawu,Hon.Fatai Oluwa,Hon.Abiodun Tobun,Hon.Folajimi Mohammed and Hon.Rauf Olawale.

According to a reliable source,the listed members were said to have been earlier approached by the affected principal officers to move the impeachment of the Speaker.

Obasa noted that,”It is a known fact that the parliament is the heart beat of every democracy and the sanctity,dignity and positive response.
“Reputation should be guided,hence the need for discipline and where it is lacking,it is very obvious that the hope of the people can be at risk.
“I invoke section 68,74,4a,4b,2 and 3,in respect of gross misconduct,insubordination and actions that can destabilize this house,I hereby pronounce and move that the Hon.Moshood Oshun and Hon.Raheem Adewale are hereby on suspension indefinitely.


The removal of the principal officers and suspension of the two members came amidst speculation that there were critical issues that could divide the House and “that more revelations might come up in the coming days.”

Meanwhile, the House has announced the death of Mr. Debo Adegbesan, a Principal Legislative Officer on Grade Level 12, who died in the early hours of Monday 9th March, 2020 at the age of 37 years.

The House subsequently adjourned sitting to Tuesday 10th March, 22020.






			
			PV: 
			0