The World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced last week that the new coronavirus outbreak can now be characterized as a pandemic.

It has sadly swept the world, infecting more than 120,000 people in more than 100 countries.
National Daily just gathered that the deputy chief of Japan’s Olympic Organizing Committee Kozo Tashima has tested positive to the new Coronavirus.
He said in a statement issued via the Japan Football Association, which he also heads: ‘Today, my test result showed positive for the new coronavirus.’
Meanwhile, most painful is the news of the death of a 21-year-old Spanish football coach, who was suffering with leukaemia, has died just days after he tested positive for coronavirus National Daily learnt.
The 21 year old coach died days after being diagnosed of Coronavirus
Francisco García, who worked with Atlético Portada Alta, in Malaga, southern Spain, is said to be one of the youngest victims in the world to have died after catching the virus.
National Daily understood that he was admitted in the hospital on Friday after suffering what he thought was a ‘bad cold’ but doctors found he had pneumonia.
‘The doctors did tests, and more tests, and then confirmed that he had coronavirus and that he was suffering with leukaemia,’ a friend told El Mundo.

His friend said he ‘struggled for a few days’ at Hospital Carlos Haya, where he was being treated in an isolated unit, before he died on Sunday night.
The club confirmed his death in a heart-breaking Facebook post: ‘From Atlético Portada Alta, we want to express our deepest condolences to the family, friends and loved ones of our coach Francisco García, who has tragically left us today
Francisco has worked with Atlético Portada Alta since 2017
‘What will we do without you now, Francis? You were always with us at Portada or helping wherever we needed it… We don’t know how, but we know we will do it, for you.
‘We won’t forget you. Rest in peace, legend. Until we meet again.’ Portada Alta president, Pepe Bueno, said: ‘He was a great guy and a very talented coach. We are all still in shock.
‘The hospital called me at 7pm on Sunday saying his condition had stabilized after he was admitted on Friday. And then one hour later… It was a combination of coronavirus and a bad illness. I can’t believe it has happened. It seems impossible.’
Francisco, who had worked with the team since 2017, is the fifth victim to have died in the province after contracting the virus, yet the others have all been elderly patients.
 

			
			PV: 
			0