President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the compulsory retirement of Winifred Ekanem Oyo-Ita as the Head of Service in the Federal Civil Service effect from Thursday, 27th February 2020.
This is contained in a communique by Olusegun A. Adekunle (Esq), Permanent Secretary (General Services Office) issued on behalf of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha.
The communique indicated that in approving the retirement, President Muhammadu Buhari affirmed that it would be without prejudice to the on-going investigations into certain allegations against the retired Head of the Civil Service of the Federation.
The communique further indicated that the President thanked Oyo-Ita for her invaluable services to the nation and wished her well in all future endeavors.
President Muhammadu Buhari subsequently, in exercise of the powers vested in him by Section 171 (2) (b); and in compliance with Sub-Sections (3) and (5) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), approved the appointment of Dr. Folasade. O. Yemi-Esan as the substantive Head of the Civil Service of the Federation with effect from Friday, 28th February 2020.
Until her new appointment, she was the Acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, a position she assumed since 18th September 2019.
Dr. Yemi-Esan, a Dental Surgeon, was appointed a Federal Permanent Secretary in 2012 and has at various times, served in the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Federal Ministries of Information, Education and Petroleum Resources.
The President enjoined the new Head of Service to bring her wealth of experience to bear in the new position so that the government could deliver on the priority areas of development already outlined.
He also urged her to make the stabilization of the Federal Civil Service topmost on her agenda.
It will be recalled that Oyo-Ita had a clash with the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, at a Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the State House, Abuja, during the first tenure of President Buhari. Attempts to frustrate her out of office then was suspended perhaps for the purpose of the 2019 general elections which the electioneering campaigns were gradually building up then.
Meanwhile, a federal high Court had ordered the forfeiture of assets traced to Oyo-Ita in pursuit of the case of corruption against her.

			
			PV: 
			0