Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has continued to ridicule Governor Umaru Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State since the dethronement of the Emir of Kano, Mahammad Sanusi II, on Monday by the Kano State government. The Kaduna State governor further demystified Ganduje for not appreciating the intellectual wealth Sanusi possesses for national development.
Accordingly, Governor El-Rufai on Wednesday offered the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, another appointment as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University (KASU).
In a statement at the Government House – Sir Kashim Ibrahim House, on Wednesday, by the media aide to the Governor, Muyiwa Adekeye, the Kaduna State government announced the appointment of Muhammad Sanusi II as Chancellor of the Kaduna State University (KASU). The statement indicated that the former Emir of Kano succeeds the pioneer Chancellor of the university, the Chief of Moro’a, Tagwai Sambo, who was appointed into the position in 2005.
The statement reads: “On behalf of the government and people of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai is delighted to appoint His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University. In public life, His Highness has demonstrated a strong commitment to education.
“The Kaduna State Government has no doubt that as Chancellor, His Highness Muhammadu Sanusi, would provide symbolic and substantive leadership in raising the profile of KASU as an emerging centre of learning on the national and global level.”
Governor El-Rufai had on Tuesday appointed deposed Emir Sanusi II Vice-Chairman of the board of the Kaduna Investment and Promotions Agency (KADIPA).
Adekeye noted that Sanusi’s appointment as Chancellor came at a time when KASU was transiting to a multi-campus structure with presence across the state.
He added that the governor thanked the pioneer Chancellor of the institution for the long years of distinguished service to KASU and the state.
El-Rufai, according to him, welcomes the consent of Sanusi to serve as chancellor of KASU and as Vice-Chairman of the board of the Kaduna Investment and Promotions Agency (KADIPA).
The statement further reads: “The Kaduna State Government is grateful that HH Muhammadu Sanusi II continues to support and assist the realisation of the governance objectives of the Kaduna State Government.”

			
			PV: 
			0