The Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has refuted the allegation in a report published by Sahara Reporters online news platform,
 that he unscrupulously award contracts to self in the House of Assembly,challenging them to proof the claims.

Obasa at Monday plenary session, unequivocally tasks the media outfit, whom he branded Sahara Liars and failure, to make the proofs in their custody open to the public in order to unveil the truth.

According to the Speaker,there is no relationship between De Kingrun and the Lagos State House of Assembly.

“Let me also join you to emphasize that what was published by ‘Sahara Liar’ has nothing to do with me.

“I said it two weeks ago when the publication was out about the existence of De kingrun, I have made my position clear on that.

“The fact remains that De-kingrun has no relationship with the Lagos state House of Assembly and I am challenging ‘SaharaLiars and Failures’ to publish if there is any.

“At least, they have alleged and they must be able to prove by giving out the name of such contracts, the amount, the location, the date and the contractual agreement.

“So, with this, the public would be convinced that truly such allegation exists.

“ As we speak, I am saying emphatically that there is no relationship between De kingrun and Lagos State House of Assembly.

“So, Sahara Liars and failure you can prove me wrong” Obasa reiterated.

The Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni,while bringing the house up to speed on the matter,stated that the house did not in anyway award any contract to the mentioned companies in the report published by the media outfit.

“Mr Speaker! Let me seek your indulgence to make announcement of the publication on Sahara Reporters in which some comments were made regarding the House.

“As the Clerk of the House and Head of Administration, I want to say categorically to the public that this house has not had any business dealings with the mentioned companies” Azeez stated.

It would be recalled that Sahara Reporters on Saturday published a report brandishing various documents that allegedly revealed illegal activities  perpetrated by Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa.

The report highlighted a list of companies that the Speaker had been using to award contracts to himself and laundering public funds.

Obasa was reported to have primarily used De Kingrun Multipurpose Nigeria Ltd, for securing and executing contracts from the parliament and ministries.

It stated that he also owns several other companies used to bid for contracts from the Lagos Assembly.

The listed companies included;Adesav International Ventures, Quick Solution International Ventures, White Honey Enterprises, Cream on Ice Services, A.B DELCO Nigeria Company, and Fabric Splash Ventures.

Others are Skye-Macosh Company, Swifthill International Ventures, Silver Section Global, Davedab Global Ventures and Jose Macosh Company.

According to the documents cited by SaharaReporters, Obasa is a direct beneficiary at De Kingrun Multipurpose Nigeria Ltd.













			
			PV: 
			0