As APC agrees to respect court order, appoints new national officers

The national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, has been silent over the suspension of the party’s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, by the Federal High Court, Abuja, which upheld the decision of the APC Ward in Edo State. The APC national leader was gathered to be watching the trend before his reaction to the developments in the party. He was also said to be bored with recurring complaints against the former APC chairman and the visible election misfortunes the ruling party suffers under the leadership of Oshiomhole.
The sponsored Oshiomhole’s appointment as APC national chairman which was supported by President Muhammadu Buhari and subsequently ratified at the party’s national convention in Abuja.
The perennial intractable conflicts in the party under Oshiomhole’s leadership was identified as a political liability that APC leaders are trying to avoid the continuation.
Meanwhile, there are insinuations that the former Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, who is now APC National Vice Chairman (South), may be nominated as APC acting National Chairman by the party leadership.
Apparently, Tinubu is not disposed to any decision contrary to the decision of the party leadership. And the APC leadership om Wednesday declared that the party would respect the order of the Court which suspended Oshiomhole as national chairman.
APC acting National Secretary, Victor Giadom, had at a media interaction at the national secretariat maintained that APC is a law-abiding party and will not undermine the court order.
The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, Abuja, had on Wednesday granted an order of interim injunction restraining Oshiomole from parading himself as the national chairman of the APC, pending the determination of the case before it.
Delivering judgment on the application filed by Mustapha Salihu and five others, Justice Danlami Senchi held that the plaintiffs have established a legal right to approach the court.
Justice Danlami Senchi in the judgement declared: “Adam Oshiomole having been suspended by the APC Ward 10 Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, cannot function as the national chairman of the party
“The APC has organs and structures in place for running of its affairs, the argument of the respondents that the party will be thrown into chaos if he is suspended is not attainable.
“Political parties must be bound by their constitution.”
The case was adjourned to April. However, Oshiomhole filed an appeal on Wednesday for stay of execution.