The Lagos state government, says social distancing to active constant tracing would help to reduce the cases further, noting that the figure was minimal compared to the numbers of cases in other parts of the world.





The State Commissioner for Health, Akin Abayomi, made this known while giving the state’s analysis of the COVID-19 update on Friday in Lagos.
Mr. Abayomi said social distancing is the key to bring the outbreak under control, because that way, we are not giving the virus the opportunity to spread from person to person,” he added.
The commissioner said the strategies of containment and social distancing utilised by the state was yielding positive results, adding that four weeks after the first case was recorded, it had been able to minimise the spread.
Abayomi said if the state government discovered that the public was not adhering to its social distancing directives, the state council would meet and might have to make some other pronouncements.
He said out of the 44 confirmed cases in the state, 70 per cent were male, while 30 per cent were female, adding that 84 per cent of the imported cases were Nigerians.
He noted that most of the cases were local transmission that had contact with people that had travelled to high risk countries, with some cases that they couldn’t trace how they contracted the virus.
Speaking on the new confirmed cases in the state, he said seven of the cases were detected among a 51 crew members of an oil and gas vessel.
He said all the crew members were tested after one of them tested positive to the virus, leading to detection of additional six cases, adding that the remaining six cases were quarantined on the vessel and receiving treatment there.
Abayomi also disclosed that the state had dispatched a team to Seme Border to rescue 16 Nigerian students stranded at the border.
“We have a situation at the Seme Border; 16 students who are trying to enter Nigeria, what they are doing outside the border, we do not know,” the commissioner said.
He said the team would meet with the immigration service at the border, and would evacuate the students based on the state governor’s order to one of the medical facilities in the state.
The commissioner said the students would be evaluated and tested to assess their risk level.






			
			PV: 
			0