unveils branded bus for Tinubu’s 2023 aspiration 

By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Lagos State House  of Assembly lawmaker representing Ifako Ijaiye constituency 2,Hon Rasheed Makinde has further empowered another set of 100 students with free Joint Admission Matriculation Board (JAMB) forms and Computer Based Test.
Makinde presented the forms at the fifth edition of his annual practice in a three pronged programme;annual free JAMB/UTME forms distribution to his constituents,unveiling of branded bus for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu 2023,sensitisation on precautionary measure to prevent Coronavirus and investiture of Makinde Formidable Legends grand patron Ojokoro LCDA chapter.

He urged all beneficiaries to keep up the distinguished performance in their academic pursuit,as that remains the best legacy that can translate them to becoming better personalities in future.

“Any government that neglect education is bound to fail,we have not jettison education and the future is very bright going by success of these youngsters.

“We have so far purchased 520 UTME forms since 2016 to date for prospective tertiary institutions’ students,mostly from the downtrodden and those children whose parents’ ranks at the bottom rug of socio-economic ladder.

“We understand the pains and the suffering of the ordinary people,that explain in full why all our projects are people-oriented and ordinary people-driven.

“It is worthy of note that,305 young persons out of our beneficiaries so far have been successfully admitted into higher institutions of learning i .e University,Polytechnic,Monothetic,College of Education and school of Nursing.

“This is a dividend of democracy carried out in a manner that reflect progress and ascertain growth and protect the future of our vibrant youths.

” Providing opportunities to teeming youths gives security and hope to the people. A caring government that understand the needs of the people and work towards achieving those set need is a serious minded government that deserve appraisal.

“We invested a lot in this projects to make sure our youths doesn’t go into crime and become undesirable elements of the society.
“To ensure social challenges are curbed and youths are given not just confidence but vision and prospects to achieve.

The CMD Ifako Ijaiye General hospital and other health personnel were on hand to sensitize constituents on safety measures as the virus festers.

A staunch lover of the giant stride of the lawmaker in the constituency but who preferred to be behind the scene,contributing his quota to development,Engineer Balogun Omolade also got investitured as the grand patron of Makinde Formidable Legends in Ojokoro LCDA.

Speaking on the sideline Balogun hinted that there are some groups within Olera Estate Ojokoro like the G5, that has impacted the community so well,they have embarked on various laudable projects,like distribution of free malaria drugs to children between the age grade 1-10years old,free GCE,WAEC and JAMB forms.

“We have decided to team up with Hon.Rasheed  Makinde to better the lot of Ifako Ijaiye 2 constituents the more.

“Infact the Makinde Formidable Legends have made a promise to the Honourable who has been doling out a hundred JAMB forms to indigent students every year,today’s own marks the fifth edition to add 100 JAMB forms to make it 200 next year.So that we can encourage more people to be well equipped and reduce poverty in future.

“We have resolved to partner with the Honourable, soon the 250 applicants learning one vocational training or the other,like tie and dye, will be graduating and shall equip them with basic start-up kits,it is going to be continuous thing.
“Every months we will also be having empowerment lecture,where all strata of the society will be captured not for members alone.
“Basically to ensure your handiwork sustain you,whatever vocational skills you have competence. We teach them how to fish to engender self reliance.

Hon Sulaimon Wasiu,the General Coordinator Makinde Formidable Legends in Ojokoro LCDA also lend credence to great impacts made by Hon.Makinde Rasheed all around the constituency.

He cautioned constituents to be careful as the scourge of Coronavirus ravaged the world and take to precautionary  measures of time to time cleaning of hands,avoiding crowds.

The Comissioner of Physical Planning and Urban Development,Mr Idris Salako who also graced the occasion made a promise to be totally committed to advancing the course of Ifako Ijaiye Constituency 2 and to work in consonance with the lawmaker for better delivery of democratic dividend to constituents.

At the well attended gathering,party faithful and stakeholders all unveiled a branded vehicle for the support of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress National Leader’s aspiration for Presidency come 2023.

Distinguished personalities were also given awards for various selfless contributions to the wellbeing of the people.

			
			PV: 
			0