The Supreme Court created Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, may have dared President Muhammadu Buhari, vowing to join forces in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to frustrate the removal of the embattled APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole.
Uzodinma in Owerri on Friday boasted that those agitating for the removal of Oshiomhole will fail. The court created governor was speaking at a time APC governor are waiting for the decision of President Buhari on the agitation for the removal of APC national chairman who has been on suspension.
While APC governors are still waiting for the President’s position on the matter, Uzodinma declared that forces within the ruling party will not allow Oshiomhole to be humiliated out of office.
Appealing to sentiments, the creative governor said that some APC members are working with the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to create a crisis.
Uzodinma, however, exposed his seeming hypocrisy on the crisis; the conflict between Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State was not instigated by PDP neither is Obaseki working with the opposition PDP. Other conflicts before and during the 2019 general elections, such as the conflicts between Oshiomhole and former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State; former Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State, among others, did not have their roots in PDP.
However, the creative Imo governor declared: “Many of us, leaders of the party, are aware that those clamouring for the chairman’s removal are working with the PDP to destabilise the party but they will fail.
“We will not allow them to humiliate our National Chairman out of office through illegal means or allow any action that will bring the party to public ridicule.”
The inherent lies from the Uzodinma postulation is obvious; his disguise cannot be hidden.
The creative governor subsequently vowed that every arsenal will be deployed to ensure that the plan of those plotting Oshiomhole’s removal is foiled, insisting that the national chairman has done nothing to warrant his removal.
Meanwhile, some ministers in the federal cabinet were insinuated to have deepened mobilization for the removal of Oshiomhole while their principal had maintained silence on the issue.
And Uzodinma maintained that APC guidelines are clear on how the National Chairman can be removed from office which must be through the National Executive committee (NEC), adding that anything outside that was illegal. However, APC will be holding its NEC meeting on March 17 in Abuja. Uzodinma appears to be already consumed in defeatist counter battle and arguments.
In further contradictory argument, he stated that those battling to unseat the national chairman would have come through the proper channel which is the party’s NEC, adding that they refused to do so because they know they have no genuine case against him.
However, except last minute reversal, APC will be holding NEC meeting on March 17, four days from now.
Meanwhile, APC governors are still waiting for President Buhari on the crisis but Uzodinma may have gone ahead to dare the president.

			
			PV: 
			0