The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been thrown into disarray by the intractable conflicts ravaging the party. The party is at the risk of polarization into factional structures and leadership in the skirmishes over the suspension of the embattled APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole.
Factional APC National Working Committee (NWC) on Saturday countered the announcement of an emergency meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee.
The party had in a statement on Saturday by APC Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom, scheduled the meeting to hold on March 17.
In a counter statement dismissing the meeting jointly signed by three APC leaders who include Babatunde Ogala, National Legal Adviser, Lanre Issa-Onilu, National Publicity Secretary, and Waziri Bulama, National Secretary, the factional APC NWC noted that the invitation was credited to the party’s Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom. They argued that the conditions for which a national executive committee meeting could be convened as provided by Article 25(B)(i) and (ii) of the APC Constitution include: –
“The National Executive Committee shall meet every quarter and or at any time decided by the National Chairman or at the request made in writing by at least two-thirds of the members of the National Executive Committee provided that not less than 14 days’ notice is given for the meeting to be summoned.
“Without prejudice to Article 25(B)(i) of this Constitution, the National Working Committee may summon an emergency National Executive Committee meeting at any time, provided that at least seven days’ notice of the meeting shall be given to all those entitled to attend.”
The APC factional leaders emphasized that neither the national chairman nor the resolution of two-thirds of members of the National Executive Committee has directed nor made any request to summon such a meeting.
They declared that Giadom is not vested with any constitutional powers to convene any meeting of the National Executive Committee, neither has he been so directed by the national chairman.
“The National Working Committee, therefore, disassociates itself from the said illegal and unauthorised notice of meeting of the National Executive Committee.
“Members of the National Executive Committee and the totality of the members of our great party are, therefore, requested to ignore the said notice and/or invitation as a product of mischief that should not be given any probative value.
“The National Working Committee (NWC) shall continue to protect our Constitution and convene its meetings and the National Executive Committee meetings, in accordance with the provisions of the Party Constitution,” the factional leaders declared.

			
			PV: 
			0