Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has thrown his weight behind a statement credited to the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu that the crisis rocking the party is all about the 2023 presidential election.
The Governor who disclosed this during an interview at the Government House Port Harcourt on Tuesday, said the APC is a party of strange bed fellows that was only concerned about the removal of former President Goodluck Jonathan.
He said that having removed Jonathan, APC has been unable to use power to the advantage of Nigerians.
“I agree with the former Lagos State Governor, Senator Bola Tinubu that the crisis in APC is about 2023. Everyone wants to be President or Vice President. This virus is indeed worse than coronavirus,” he said.
He also berated the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, for alleging that the PDP is responsible for the plot to remove Adams Oshiomhole as the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress.
“It is unfortunate that Senator Hope Uzodinma will have the temerity to make that false allegation. Hope Uzodinma was an APC agent while he was in PDP. That was why APC used him as an agent to support Ali Modu Sheriff, but they failed.
“It is unfortunate that people of questionable character are in Government. Hope Uzodinma cannot talk about the attempted removal of APC National Chairman and mention the PDP. What is our business in the attempted removal of Oshiomhole? “
“If Senator Uzodinma dares to make such false comments again about the PDP, we will tell the world about him. That he fraudulently took the mandate of PDP does not mean that PDP is weak. Hope Uzodinma lacks the capacity to discuss the PDP.”
Governor Wike also urged Nigerians to be vigilant and work towards protecting the Judiciary, adding that the APC has destroyed the Judiciary.
He decried the situation where the Court of Appeal granted a stay of execution on the suspension of the APC National Chairman, but the FCT High Court went ahead to declare another person the Acting National Chairman. He said only the National Executive Committee of political parties have such powers.
He said: “The Judiciary should be very careful. The Judiciary should be alert. It should not allow itself to be used. It should not allow itself to be destroyed.
“With what the APC is doing today, we may not have the Judiciary and everyone will pay the price. The party is trying to destroy the hope of the common man,” he said.

 
 





			
			PV: 
			0