Several commercial banks in Nigeria have adopted measures to protect customers from coronavirus infection or spread of the virus as they enter banking halls. A survey by National Daily showed that all the banks provided sanitizers for free use by customers. At some of the banks visited in Ikeja, the capital of Lagos State, which include First Bank, GT Bank, Access Bank, Refuge Mortgage Bank, UBA, Fidelity, etc, customers were compelled at the entrance door into the banking hall to use sanitizer before gaining access into the bank. The security personnel is handy with a container of sanitizer which he gives to the customer, some will request to spray on the customer’s palm, for use before entrance into the banking hall. Some other banks, however, made the use of sanitizers voluntary by customers. In this case, customers walk into the banking hall and will only be offered sanitizers on request.
In some of the banks where the use of sanitizer is voluntary, this Reporter accosted the internal security personnel to know if sanitizer is available [where it is not kept in the open] and the security staff directs to the position of the sanitizer in the banking hall.
Generally, the banks provided sanitizer for customers both at the entrance door and on the counter in the banking hall; but not all banks made the use of sanitizer compulsory; only few ensure customers apply sanitizer before entrance into the banking hall.
However, several other institutions ignored such arrangement in their offices. It is more ridiculous that the Nigerian House of Representatives even contemplated going on two weeks vacation because of coronavirus. The federal lawmakers had resolved to shut down the Lower Chamber of the National Assembly for two weeks while mandating the National Assembly management to take action that will prevent the spread of coronavirus in the country. The legislators contemplated their vacation as though the National Assembly management is not staffed by humans, maybe they considered management staff relation of coronavirus.
The commercial banks clearly demonstrated patriotism and commitment to safety of their customers and staff, so, they can carry out their transactions with confidence.

			
			PV: 
			0