The Red Devils fans had their hope of landing the top European sensation Erling Braut Haaland at Old Trafford during the last January transfer window dashed when the wonder kid ended up at Borussia Dortmund.
More dented was their feeling when the young Norwegian talent instantly hit the ground running at Signal Iduna Park scoring nine goals in eight Bundesliga appearances.
Haaland has already hit the ground running at Signal Iduna Park
National Daily recalls that Haaland scored in the first five games of Red Bull Salzburg’s Champions League campaign on his way to become the first ever teenager to score in five consecutive matches in the competition before his move to Germany.
Manchester United fans will definitely savour the advice to Haaland by Steve McManaman to snub Real Madrid advances this summer; a development that would naturally boost the hopes of the Old Trafford club to still get their desired talent in the future.
McManaman believes that  Haaland should avoid a transfer to any European elite clubs just yet
National Daily further learnt from McManaman’s colum for HorseRacing.Net that the  former Liverpool and Real Madrid legend does not fancy the need for Haaland to rush into signing for one of the Europe’s elite clubs just yet despite his remarkable form.
“It’s too soon for him to leave Borussia Dortmund. He seems to be happy and more importantly he’s playing regularly and scoring goals.
“He should stay, he should play and he should get a couple of more years under his belt.
“He should move when he’s a more experienced player after playing 200 or so games for Dortmund and playing 20 to 30 games in the Champions League, which he should do.
“He can’t just go and jump ship and go to Real Madrid. You’ve seen what’s happened to Luka Jovic this season, he’s hardly kicked a ball for Real Madrid after having a wonderful season last year in Germany.
Haaland doesn’t need that pressure. On top of that, I’ve heard that Real Madrid are interested in Kylian Mbappe instead, so both of them don’t need to be there at the same time.”
Meanwhile, it will definitely interest the Red Devils fans to behold a future attacking trio of Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial and Erling Haaland at Old Trafford. What a formidable force that could present in their bid to return United to the glory days.







			
			PV: 
			0