The Volunteer Medical Corps has donated medical equipment to the management of the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Ugbowo Benin-City, Edo, in support of their care for cancer patients in the hospital’s oncology department.
A number of other items, including cash donations, running to millions of naira, on March 6 were also handed out to the hospital management and patients—courtesy of the VMC, a registered non-profit organization and member agency of the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International.
These donations were part of the activities of the VMC’s Light of Hope Project, a campaign designed to raise awareness about cancer and its risk factors, and to promote healthier lifestyle choices and relevant cancer-related screening for Nigerians.
Senior Executive Officer of the NGO, Dr. Olajumoke Akisanya, who was representing the Chairperson of the organization, Dr. Deola Phillips, led the corps, and were received by the UBTH Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC), Prof. Casmir Omuemu on behalf of the Chief Medical Director, Prof. Darlington Obaseki.
“We are very grateful for the donation that was done today, you know cancer care is something that really takes a lot of money, takes a lot out of the patient. And there is no way that individuals can handle it alone, so we really appreciate this kind of gesture and we call on other well-meaning Nigerians to do the same thing,’ said Omuemu.
“It will really go a long way to alleviate the suffering of these brothers and sisters who have cancer.  We want to say a very big thank you to Volunteer Medical Corps from University Of Benin Teaching Hospital.”
Through the Light of Hope Project, volunteers with the Volunteer Medical Corps have carried out hundreds of humanitarian acts for those living with cancer. These include donations of gifts and Christian literature.
The VMC was established as an ever-expanding network of Christian medics and paramedics, health care professionals, humanitarian volunteers, and students, spreading across no fewer than 120 countries around the world.

			
			PV: 
			0