It was reported that the authorities of the English Premier League wasn’t considering pausing the games. Even though most of the EPL team managers and players are scared of playing under the situation.

So the first meeting to decide on what to do about the league this past week ended in favor of a continuation. However just after that decision to continue with all the fixtures for this weekend. Some key persons, Arsenal’s Arteta, Chelsea’s Odoi and co tested positive to the virus.

A situation that forced another meeting of the EPL authorities. And finally the league was suspendes. With that decision made, the players who tested positive have proceeded to make positive announcent about their situation.

Mikel Arteta says he is “feeling better already” a day after Arsenal announced their head coach had tested positive for coronavirus.

Arteta, the first-team squad and coaching staff have been self-isolating in line with government health guidelines.

Arteta tweeted in support of the news on Friday afternoon.

He said: “Thanks for your words and support. Feeling better already. We’re all facing a huge and unprecedented challenge. Everyone’s health is all that matters right now.


“Protect each other by following the guidelines and we’ll come through this together. Well done PL (Premier League) for making the right decisions.”

Arsenal’s first-team players have not been in contact with Arteta since Tuesday. The players were on a day off on Wednesday before Thursday’s diagnosis.

David Moyes came into close contact with Arteta on Saturday

West Ham manager David Moyes is in self-isolation as a precautionary measure after coming into direct contact with Arteta on Saturday.

The West Ham boss has shown no coronavirus symptoms and has taken action simply as a precautionary measure.

Hudson-Odoi ‘better’ after positive coronavirus test
Callum Hudson-Odoi is “doing well and looking forward to returning to the training ground”

Callum Hudson-Odoi is ‘doing well and looking forward to returning to the training ground’

Chelsea’s full squad has gone into self-isolation after winger Callum Hudson-Odoi tested positive for coronavirus, the club said in a statement in the early hours of Friday morning.

Hudson-Odoi displayed cold symptoms on Monday morning and has stayed away from the club since then.

The winger tweeted: “As you may be aware, I’ve had the virus for the last couple of days, which I’ve recovered from.

“I’m feeling fine. Following the health guidelines and self-isolating myself from everybody for the week. I hope to see everybody soon and hopefully be back on the pitch very soon.”

Now is there a conspiracy to ensure Liverpool don’t win the trophy this season? We won’t be surprised to see players at the relegated zones of the table, testing positive for coronavirus.

There’s no single Liverpool player who has tested positive. And because the conapiracy doesn’t favor them. We may never see anyone come out to announce such status.



			
			PV: 
			0