Former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode has given reasons why the recently deposed Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, cannot succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 despite calls in some quarters that he join politics ahead of the 2023 general elections.
Fani-Kayode who blasted those calling for Sanusi to replace President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023, wonders why the next President must come from the North, describing those making the call as accursed slaves.
The former Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, boss is seen by some as the best candidate to take over from Buhari even though he officially does not belong to any political party.
Fani-Kayode tweeted, “The kind of evil that some useful idiots and accursed slaves are wishing upon themselves with this SLS for 2023 thing baffles me. Must we be slaves to the north forever? Abi they don swear for una?”
Also, a former representative of Kaduna Central senatorial district at the Senate, Shehu Sani, warned Sanusi Lamido Sanusi against joining politics ahead of 2023 presidential election.
In a post he shared on Twitter and directed to the ex-Emir, Shehu Sani said, “Rest well in the comfort of your family without the burden and the lice of the turban and the gown.
“Avoid individuals and groups trying to drag you into partisan politics and avoid being used as a ladder. Its enough being a hero, they should look for a martyr elsewhere.”
Sanusi, who was dethroned on Monday and banished to Nasarawa State few hours later, regained his freedom yesterday after an Abuja court ruled in his favour.
Also, a former representative of Kaduna Central senatorial district at the Senate, Shehu Sani, warned Sanusi Lamido Sanusi against joining politics ahead of 2023 presidential election.
In a post he shared on Twitter and directed to the ex-Emir, Shehu Sani said, “Rest well in the comfort of your family without the burden and the lice of the turban and the gown.
“Avoid individuals and groups trying to drag you into partisan politics and avoid being used as a ladder. It’s enough being a hero, they should look for a martyr elsewhere.”







			
			PV: 
			0