Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State may have dared Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State over his support for the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, by the Kano State government last week. Governor Ganduje who denied dethroning the Kano Emir, though, admitted the dethronement of Emir Sanusi II by the Kano State government which he supervises, may have gone under the shadow of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State to challenge Governor El-Rufai for accepting and honouring the dethroned Emir of Kano with appointments in Kaduna State, including other acts of solidarity and support for Emir which have placed Governor Ganduje of Kano State in bad light over the dethronement of the Kano Emir.
Apparently, the Kano State APC had challenged Governor El-Rufa’I to create a new emirate for the dethroned Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II in Kaduna. The party condemned offer of appointments to the dethroned Emir by the Kaduna State Governor, complaining of the former Emir’s caustic criticisms of the APC government, including President Muhammadu Buhari.
The party chided El-Rufa’i for providing succour for the dethroned Emir and assisting in his resettlement after the dethronement. APC portrayed Emir Sanusi II as working for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), protesting why Governor El-Rufa’I should be supporting the dethroned Emir who is working against his party, the APC.
Governor El-Rufa’I had on Tuesday appointed Emir Sanusi II Vice Chairman of the Board of the State Investment Promotion Agency (KADIP), after the Emir’s dethronement on Monday and was also banished to Loko, Nasarawa State, later relocated to Awe before the court judgment that annulled his detention, ordering his immediate release. Governor El-Rufa’i subsequently, offered Emir Sanusi II a second appointment on Wednesday as Chancellor of the Kaduna State University. Both appointments were conceived to have ridiculed Governor Ganduje and the Kano State government over the dethronement of the Emir of Kano. The Emir later on Friday relocated to Lagos, where he presently resides with his family.
Governor El-Rufa’i increased his solidarity for Emir Sanusi II when he visited the deposed Emir at Awe, Nasarawa State, a time the security operatives were not allowing people access to the deposed Emir. The Kaduna Governor further conveyed the deposed Emir in his car from Awe to Abuja on his way to Lagos after an Abuja High Court ordered his release from detention. El-Rufa’i further visited Emir Sanusi II in Lagos.
Governor Ganduje appeared troubled over  El-Rufa’i’s fraternity with the deposed Emir of Kano.
Confronting the Kaduna governor through the party structure, APC in a statement by the Deputy State Chairman, Alhaji Shehu Maigari, challenged Governor El-Rufa’i to create new emirate and appoint the dethroned Emir Sanusi II traditional ruler of a new emirate.
The party chided Governor El-Rufa’i for treating dethroned Emir Sanusi II as a hero, who the APC leaders, said criticized President Buhari and the APC government.
The State party had declared: “Your Excellency, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, this is somebody who worked against the success of APC, your dear party, coming out openly to criticise your mentor (Mr. President) with no concrete reasons or justifications, yet, you have decided to treat him like a hero.
“Sir, APC Kano Chapter is strongly advising you to create additional emirate in your state like New Kaduna Emirate Council, probably, to start from Rigachikun to Kasuwar Magani and install your hero there, so that he can work effectively for his dear party (PDP) over there, instead of giving him those ceremonial positions.” The Kano APC may be inciting the APC leadership to rise against Governor El-Rufai.

			
			PV: 
			0