As the APC National Working Committee meets tomorrow to decide chairman Adams Oshiomhole fate i the party, the South-South chapter of the APC has registered its support for him amid calls for his resignation.
The chapter made this known In a communique issued on Monday in Abuja after a meeting of the NEC members of the party from the zone in Abuja on Sunday night.
They insisted the plot to remove Oshiomhole was the handiwork of some “agents of destabilization” within the party.
The signatory to the communique include the Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, National Vice Chairman, Hilliard Eta, Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, Hon. Peter Akpatason, and thirteen other NEC members.
The leaders also disassociated themselves from today’s emergency NEC meeting convened by the National Deputy Secretary Victor Giadom.
“We agree that the National Chairman of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has done very well in the administration of the affairs of our great party,” te document read in part.
“That under the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, we won the just concluded presidential elections, won majority of the seats in the National Assembly, and also won governorship elections in most states of the federation.
“That in line with the resolutions reached by the National Working Committee (NWC) of our party, we dissociate ourselves from the purported NEC meeting being summoned by Hon. Victor Giadom as he does not have the constitutional powers to summon NEC meeting.”
They also confirmed that said Hon. Victor Giadom is not a member of NWC, having resigned his position as deputy national secretary of the party to contest elections in Rivers State as deputy governorship candidate in the 2019 general elections.
Nabena made the claim on Sunday, in response to a so-called caucus meeting by Edo Gov. Godwin Obaseki, Ministers Rotimi Amaechi and Festus Keyamo, and others.
“W implore all members of NEC to respect the decisions of the National Working Committee (NWC) of our party that the purported NEC meeting summoned by Victor Giadom is illegal and unconstitutiona,l” the communique added.
The zone also passed vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari, commending him for his sterling leadership of the affairs of Nigeria.

			
			PV: 
			0