Nigeria’s star boy and international recording artist Ayo Balogun better known as Wizkid, is not someone who likes to brag about his success in the music industry – both locally and overseas.

He has built a strong reputation for him self, coming from on of the oldest suburbs in Lagos, to breaking music records and setting new ones globally. His effort in putting African music to the world cannot be overlooked.

I have gathered a list of producers Wizkid has successfully brought to stardom and he never brags about it. Enjoy!

5. Blaq Jerzee

StarBoy Entertainment recording artist and producer Blaq Jerzee rose to limelight when he featured on Wizkid’s “SoundMan” Extended Play.

He took many by surprise with his amazing vocals, beat production and mind blowing lyrics. Wizkid has not come out publicly to brag about Jerzee’s sky rocketing music career.

4. Mutay

Okiemute Oniko (born 27 May 1989), better known as Mut4y is a Nigerian singer and producer. He is the brother to Uzezi Oniko, they are the duo of Legendury Beatz.

Mutay’s solo ride began when he produced a hit track for Wizkid titled “Manya” and ever since then it’s been a whole lot of recognition. Mut4y is signed to StarBoy Entertainment.

3. Maleek Berry

Maleek Berry is a Nigerian artist and producer, he produced one of the best diss songs in the country – “Back to the matter” by Wizkid and has since been a household name.

Born in August 11, 1987 this talented musician rose to fame in 2012. He has chart topping singles to his name and is well respected in the game. Maleek has worked with so many A-list musicians and he is still setting records.

2. Samklef

Samklef is a talented music producer/artiste who hails from Imo State Nigeria, but was born and bred in Lagos. Samklef produced a large portion of Wizkid’s widely acclaimed album “Superstar”.

Before every other producers started creating magic with Wizkid, there was Samklef who at that time was the only one who could make Wizkid his choice beats. As Wizkid blew up Sam’s name was also heard, his success in the music industry can be traced to Wizkid.

1. Sarz

Prolific music producer and musician Osabuohien Osaretin, better known by his stage name Sarz is another producer whose rise to fame can be traced to Wizkid.

Popular for his music tag “Sarz on the beat” this hard working artist has been in the game long enough. He has helmed some of Wizkid’sbiggest songs spanning two albums, (“Joy (Ayo)” and “Sounds From The Other Side”.) His production credits stretch as far as Wizzy’s collaborations with Drake. He is the solo producer of the smash hit, ‘Come closer. ‘

Unlike so many other superstars out there, Wizkid doesn’t brag about who he has brought and helped to fame and stardom


			
			PV: 
			0