Buxom On Air Personality Tolu Oniru-Demuren has come on social media to share a post after rumours of her marriage crash went viral on Monday.

The mother of one, who works with the Beats 99.9 FM radio station has not said anything to either deny or confirm the rumour.

Married to Captain Tunde Demuren, Toolz, as she is popularly called, is one of the radio presenters in Nigeria who would always put up their intimate lives on social media.

From when she was dating Tunde, who is the son of Harold Demuren, former Director-General, Federal Aviation Authority Of Nigeria (FAAN)to when she was engaged, and their wedding ceremonies both in Nigeria and Dubai, their lives had always been featured online as a perfect couple in a perfect marriage.

She even shared her first pregnancy photo at the traditional wedding between Banky W and Adesua Etomi in 2017.

She lost the pregnancy and that made her withdraw a bit from sharing her lifestyle online.

But by the time she had her first baby, a boy,  for Tunde, the couple rushed online again to share the good news . Toolz didn’t forget to tell her fans and followers how she had the miscarriage and how it was handled.

The couple had fared well (we all assumed).

They shared photo shoot of their baby’s first birthday with Toolz and Tunde wearing the same native attire with their son, who they fondly call, Chairman.

The ‘living-happily-ever-after’ façade went on until recently when she yanked off her husband’s name from her Instagram profile and reverted to her maiden name.

Toolz, who is a princess and daughter of the late Oba Oniru,  went to rant on Instagram Stories that she was flying alone!

She wrote: “Those that fly solo have the strongest wings”

Of course, the now-deleted post went viral and the news is that the lovey-dovey couple has decided to take a walk from the marriage which was solemnized four years ago amidst pomp and pageantry.

Sharing a photo of herself today on Instagram and Twitter, Toolz did not insert any text.

Is she telling everyone that its over between her and  Captain Demuren?


			
			PV: 
			0