Given that cancer is the second most common cause of death in the world, it’s shocking how many of those people went untreated until the final stages of the diseases when little can be done to help them.
Detecting the disease in its early stages is vital in effectively treating and “curing” it. That’s why we need to be vigilant about all the ways it may present itself through our bodies.
Here are some symptoms of cancer that you might ignore or consider to be harmless:
Sudden and Unexplained Weight Loss
Weight loss, unless you were actively trying to make it happen through diet and exercise, is one of the most common symptoms of cancers in the stomach, lung, or pancreas.
High Fever
Blood cancers like leukemia and lymphoma show themselves in the beginning stages through high fevers. Fever could also be a sign of early-stage kidney or colon cancer.
Fatigue & Tiredness
It’s natural to feel tired from time to time, say after a particularly busy week at work or a long trip. In these cases, you should recover with some much deserved rest. But, if the fatigue doesn’t go away even with rest, it could point to cancers like stomach, colon, or blood (leukemia).
Aches & Pain
Pain is one of the most common signs of cancer, and also one the most commonly ignored signs of cancer. Bone and testicular cancer can cause aching, frequent and severe headaches may be an indication of brain tumor, and back pain could be a symptom of ovarian or colon cancer.
Changes in bowel movements
Diarrhea or constipation that doesn’t get better with medication or a sudden change in the size of the stool can be pointing to rectal or colon cancer. And if you experience blood when passing urine, you should get checked for bladder or prostate cancer.
Shortness of breath
Breathlessness as a sign of cancer may be caused due to a blockage of air tubes if there is a cancer in or near the lungs. It can also be due to other cancers like breast, ovarian, or liver.
Unusual Bleeding
Bleeding unusually is always cause for concern, and one more thing to add to your list of worries is cancer. Coughing blood could indicate lung cancer, while blood in the urine or stool could mean a colon, kidney, or bladder cancer. Breast cancer patients have also reported bloody discharge from the nipple.
Irregular Lump
If you find a lump anywhere in your body, you should immediately get it check out by a doctor. But, the way to identify a cancerous lump is if it is hard, but not painful, irregularly shaped or firmly affixed deep in the soft tissue or underneath your skin.
Difficulty Swallowing
If you’re having difficulty swallowing, it could be an indication of mouth or throat cancers. Other cancers in the head and neck such as esophageal, oropharyngeal, thyroid and laryngeal cancers may also show themselves in this way.
Nagging cough
More than 50% of people who have nagging coughs that won’t get better with medication are diagnosed with lung cancer! A severe cough is also associated with laryngeal and thyroid cancer.
White patches inside the mouth
If you see white patches in your mouth, you should get them treated immediately! These can be pre-cancerous leukoplakia, which means they can become cancerous if not treated early.
Heartburn
Heartburn could be caused by any number of reasons, including but not limited to, excessive food, alcohol or stress. But, if it persists or worsens even with medication, it could be a sign of cancer in the ovaries, stomach, or throat.

			
			PV: 
			0