Pastors Chris and Benny
        
 


Covid-19 gets death sentence
In a clear response to recent happenings across the globe, President, Loveworld Incorporated Rev. (Dr.) Chris Oyakhilome and Pastor Benny Hinn, have declared a Global Day of Prayer. This special prayer program is slated to hold on Friday, March 27th at 7pm GMT+1 or 2pm EST and it will be broadcast LIVE on all LoveWorld TV networks, terrestrial TV stations, various Radio stations across the globe and also on various internet platforms.
This is a timely instruction of the Holy Ghost poised to change the narrative and free the world from the devastating effects caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. God’s generals will also be bringing a special message to the world during this program.
To this end, Christians around the world, irrespective of denominations, are now preparing to take a stand in unity against the forces of darkness causing panic and perplexity in the world today, as they observe this Global Day of Prayer. This is a special call to prayer according to the inspiration of God’s Spirit.
It is a faith response to restore hope amidst the growing fear and confusion expressed by different governments of the world in the wake of the Coronavirus epidemic. Through effective prayers, there is an assurance that the nations will be liberated from the siege of this pandemic.
ALSO READ: Coronavirus: Pastor Chris prays for Nigeria, world
In the featured video, Pastor Chris and Pastor Benny unveil deep truths about the events being witnessed across the world today in relation to Bible prophecies. They emphasize the need for the body Christ to unite in prayers and put a stop to the devil’s schemes as the Church is the only hope for the world.
Information reaching National Daily suggested that over 2billion people are likely to participate in the #GlobalDayofPrayer as the publicity for the programme has reached top gear.
It will be recalled that Pastor Chris Oyakhilome on March 1, 2020, during his Monthly Global Service and Communion prayed for the entire world going through anxiety as  a result of a global pestilence that has been raging since late last year, as reported by National Daily.
ALSO READ: https://loveworldnews.com/posts/pastor-chris-prophecies-begin-to-take-effect-as-covid-19-solutions-surface
He prayed: “Father, in the name of Jesus Christ…thank you for your word that has been given to us. Lord you told us that in the last days, there will be perplexity of nations. Men’s heart failing them from fear because of the things they will see…because of the terrible experiences in the nations of the world,”
“Right now Lord, many are afraid because of this deadly virus orchestrated by the devil, but you gave us power over every unclean spirits…to cast them out and cure diseases. In the name of our Lord Jesus, we come against the Corona virus from the very cause of it…from the very root of it. And we come against the devils, the demons that spearheaded this project.
“You devils of sickness and disease…you evil spirit behind the Corona virus, it is said that your work started in China, but wherever you started from and whatever nations you have gone, we break your influence now in the name of Jesus and we command you to stop your operations and your maneuvers over the governments of the world.
“In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, every demon of darkness that is involved in this wicked onslaught against the nations of the world. You devils of darkness that are responsible for destroying lives and economies of nations through fear of the Corona virus, we bind you; we break your influence in the name of Jesus.
“We command you now to stop in your tracks in the name of Jesus Christ. Your works are now frustrated. We dispatch angels of God to go forth and cause the vaccines to be made available; to come into operation; solution to come to men in their various nations; the cure to be available and cheap by the wisdom of God, be released into the nations now. In the name of Jesus, there is an answer and there is cure right now in the name of Jesus Christ. And there will be no more fear of it by the power of the Holy Ghost in the name of Jesus Christ.”

			
			PV: 
			0