Solskjaer wants Pogba back for the crucial Manchester derby
        
 


 
Serie A team, Roma has expressed desire to secure Manchester United defender, Chris Smalling, who at the moment is on-loan to the club.
Manchester United has already placed a £25million on the player’s head following his impressive performance during a season-long loan spell in Italy and Roma.
But Roma are said to be shocked by United’s valuation, and are reconsidering whether a swoop for the 30-year-old would represent value for money, report the Metro.
United are keen to avoid losing another out-of-favour centre-half on the cheap after flogging Jonny Evans for just £6million back in 2015.
The Northern Irishman significantly enhanced his reputation at Leicester and has been the subject of £35million interest from Arsenal and Manchester City in recent years.
Roma were expecting to be able to strike a deal for less than £20million, but United are mindful other clubs may also be interested in the former Fulham defender.
Smalling is reportedly keen on extending his stay at the Stadio Olimpico having forced his way back into the England fold while in Italy ahead of Euro 2020.
Three Lions boss Gareth Southgate admitted his regret at publicly criticising Smalling’a ball-playing ability when axing him from the England squad two and a half years ago.
Southgate went to Italy to watch Smalling play for Roma alongside assistant Steve Holland in December.
Ahead of scheduled friendlies against Italy and Denmark later this month, Southgate said: “I’ve never ruled anybody out. I think that would be wrong.
“I think I said I probably regretted the way the message of… by praising others for certain attributes, there was criticism for Chris. It was my fault and it was unfair on him.
“I think he’s done well in Italy. He’s playing at another big club. He was obviously playing at a big club before. We’re watching everybody because we’ve got to make sure we make the right decision.
“I spoke to him when I left him out of the squad and explained what I explained to everybody.
“Of course because of the way it came out, there was little point (in talking to him again) because I wasn’t going to say anything that hadn’t already been said.”

			
			PV: 
			0