The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj Gen Olu Irefin has said that the Nigerian Army standards and operations are being improved upon to carry out its statutory obligations.

To this end, he explained that the force is relentlessly combating security challenges through equipment procurement, adequate training and retraining of personnel as well as welfare provision for its personnel.

This he added, have yielded positive results as terrorism and other violent crimes in the country have been drastically stemmed.

Gen Irefin, who was the Special Guest of Honour at the 2019 West African Social Activities (WASA) organised by the Nigerian Army Education Corps (NAEC) at Ann barracks, Yaba at the weekend, noted that the approval of “this aged-long tradition shows the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Buratai’s determination in sustaining ethics, customs and tradition in the Army.

He commended the Corps for its statutory responsibilities so far and sustained manpower training of personnel, which he averred, would go a long way at enhancing service delivery.

The GOC, therefore, urged the corps to ensure there is qualitative education for both personnel and children of civilians in all the Command schools. “You must strive harder to drive the NA language proficiency training and effective provision of library, museum and archival services in line with NAEC mission.”

Reiterating, Gen Irefin noted that festival of this nature fosters espirit de corp; which translates to loyalty, better Civil-Military relationship and dedication in the performance of assigned responsibilities.

Earlier, the Commander, Nigerian Army Education Corps, Maj Gen Mohammed Bunza said that the 2019 WASA held due to the sustained drive of the COAS to observe all aspects of regimentation as part of its vision to have a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional role.

Explaining some modest achievements of NAEC, he noted that the Education Corps have continued to contribute its quota towards quality education in Nigerian Army noting that “we are making concerted efforts to ensure that all NAEC are mobilized to perform optimally in their duties.”

Gen Bunza acknowledged that the corps was partnering with Nigerian Army Resource Centre for capacity building workshop for its officers. He also added they would continue to provide qualified lecturers for the recently established Nigerian Army University, Biu as well as other higher institutions such as the Nigerian Army Institute of Science and Technology, Ilorin with other two colleges.

Awards were presented by Maj Gen Irefin to four deserving soldiers for their exemplary disposition and hard work in the last one year. They included Warrant Officers Chidi Anajem, Ajie Cosmos, Staff Sergeant Abu Momoh and Corporal Usman Atak.

During the ceremony which attracted people from civil society, retired officers and students from Command Secondary Schools, also performed sundry traditional dances representing device entities of the country.

In addition, a Tug of War competition between Headquarters, Nigerian Army Education Corps and Nigerian Army Archive as well as the ceremonial beaten of retreat by Nigerian Army band rounded off an evening of great tradition by the Nigerian Army.




			
			PV: 
			0