There are emerging indications that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) may be closing in on the embattled national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over allegations of impropriety contained petitions to the commission.
Sources from the commission, who sought anonymity, revealed that the anti-graft agency may review the petitions pending at the headquarters, including previous court judgement of a Federal High ordering the arrest and prosecution of the embattled APC chairman.
The sources could not, however, clarify if the emerging trend is connected with the crisis ravaging the ruling party in which the APC chairman is in the middle of the storm.
The sources recalled that a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja had in October 2018 ordered service of court papers on application seeking order of mandamus compelling the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to arrest and prosecute the APC Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, over allegations of misappropriation of public funds as Edo State Governor. They noted that Justice Anwuli Chikere had given the order in an ex parte application by an anti-corruption crusader, Bishop Osadolor Ochei, who made allegations that Oshiomhole diverted state funds to personal use. The order of mandamus was said to be received by the EFCC, then, but action has been pending.
It was noted that the ex-parte with Suit No FHC/ABJ/CS/628/ 2018, was filed by the activist’s counsel, Dr. West Idahosa.
Bishop Ochei had petitioned the EFCC on October 28, 2016, against Oshiomhole over allegation of misappropriation of public funds when he was Governor of Edo State from November 2008 to November 11, 2016.
The commission’s sources said that the court order was not vacated, adding that the said petition, among other petitions, is still pending and could be acted upon soon, adding that the commission will not leave any stone unturned in the drive to purge the system of corruption irrespective of who is involved.

			
			PV: 
			0