Former governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi are locked in battle over who control the Ekiti chapter of the People Democratic Party as the state prepares for its congress.
The two gladiators, each controlling a caucus within the party exchanged verbal invectives over an allegation of unholy alliance with the ruling party in the state leveled against the anointed candidate of Olujimi, Kehinde Odebunmi.
While the PDP youths in the South-West, under the aegis of PDP Youths Congress (PDPYC), have alleged that Odebunmi was working with the All Progressives Congress (APC) government in the State, accusing him of meeting with the Chief of Staff to the State Governor, Mr. Biodun Omoleye on Wednesday, Odebunmi has denied the allegation, saying he has never personally met Omoleye let alone plan with him against the PDP.
According to its release on Friday, signed by the Convener, PDPYC, Comrade Oluwole Durojaiye, , the youths challenged Odebunmi to swear to an oath that he did not hold meeting with Governor Kayode Fayemi’s Chief of Staff at about 11pm on Wednesday, in the company of one Segun Akinwumi and another unidentified man.
The PDP youth said it was strange that Odebunmi, who is being sponsored by the PDP Senator representing Ekiti South, Biodun Olujimi, could be hobnobbing with the APC government.
“We heard it on good authority that Odebunmi met Governor Kayode Fayemi’s Chief of Staff at about 11 pm yesterday, in company of one Hon. Segun Akinwumi and another man, whose identity was not known. One Deji Adesokan (Jaru) and Hon. Olowookere were also in the meeting.
“Fayemi’s Chief of Staff told Odebunmi that a sum of N50 million had been approved by the governor to assist in the funding of the congresses and that N10 million was released.
“It should be recalled that Senator Olujimi has not stopped praising Governor Fayemi over her victory at the appeal court.
“Also, she has ensured that the State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Jackson Adebayo, who is now loyal to her, has never issued any press statement against the APC State government in the last six months.”
Reacting, Odebunmi dismissed the allegation as frivolous, saying: “l don’t even know Fayemi’s chief of staff, let alone meeting with him. It is a frivolous allegation and the ranting of someone who has lost it.
“I think the only time I had an acquaintance with Fayemi was when his team came to the immunization campaign of the Lion’s club as I am a member of the club and I had led the Governor’s team to the place. My people know that I never met the man afterwards for any other thing.”

			
			PV: 
			0