Majority of Christian worshippers in Osun state stayed at home on Sunday as directed by the state government to tackle the spread of the coronavirus in the state.
Recall that the Secretary to the state government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji, had on Saturday in a statement ban all public gatherings.
The statement added that the latest directive became necessary following fresh cases of COVID-19, as announced by the Federal Ministry of Health.
The State Government of Osun had initially announced a ban on public gatherings having 50 or more people, but reviewed the position following the announcement of more confirmed cases by the Federal Ministry of Health”.
The Headquarters of Winner Chapel, located around Ring Road in the metropolis was under lock and key when our Correspondent visited the church early Sunday morning.
Security guards at the entrance of the church declined comment, claiming they were not authorized to speak to press on any issue.
In the same way, the Redeemed Christian Church, situated around Gbongan-Osogbo road was also shut down, likewise Celestial Church of Christ, Parish 1, Ayetoro, as well as the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Region 79, Omobolanle district, Osogbo.
 
Meanwhile, there was an unconfirmed report that one of the orthodox churches within the metropolis was open for service, during which the pastor of the church was apprehended amid stiff resistance from church members.
Although, the Police Public Relations Officer for the state command, SP Folashade Odoro, when contacted declined comment, saying she was not aware of such development.
However, Mr Afolabi Babawale, the Public Relation Officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) Osun command told newsmen that officers of the corps who were part of the enforcement team were attacked at Ede.
He specifically accused members of Obada Baptism Church in the town of attacking NSCDC officers, alleging that a political leader in the town was said to have instigated the resistance.





			
			PV: 
			0