The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered the closure of all markets and  stores in Lagos state, except  markets selling food, water, drugs and other essential life saving items.

The order which is to last for seven days, takes effect from, Thursday 26th March, 2020.

Governor Sanwo-olu, who also is the Incident Commander, gave the order while addressing journalists at Lagos House, Marina, on Tuesday.

He said the step became imperative as a result of the situation in Lagos and the country as a whole.

“I am here again this afternoon to update you on the COVID-19 situation in Lagos State, as well as the latest steps we are taking to tackle this disease that has thrown much of the world into disarray.

“We have seen an increase in the total number of confirmed cases nationwide with Lagos leading the pack,having recorded the most number of newly confirmed cases”.
 “All open markets and stores are directed to close, except for sellers of food and medicines, medical equipment and other essential life-saving products.

“For those that fall into the aforementioned categories, it is imperative that they observe necessary precautionary measures of social distancing”, Governor Sanwo-olu said.

He also informed that the government are identifying other isolation centers across five divisional zones of Ikeja; Badagry; Ikorodu; Lagos Island and Epe to ensure that there is a seamless and coordinated approach.
Geared towards ensuring quick identification and isolation of suspected cases without overwhelming the mainland infectious diseases hospital in Yaba.

Governor Sanwo-Olu also encouraged the  organized private sector to follow the steps toed by public sector and allow as many workers as possible to work from home.

He encouraged banks and other Financial Institutions to prioritize online channels for their services to the public; with only essential and key senior staff being in the office during these times.


He also directed the Chief Judge of Lagos State to ensure that all Magistrate and High Courts in Lagos State close immediately to the public and suspend all court sittings.

Adding that as much as is possible, essential services should be transacted electronically, just as he ordered all public parks, including those in private and residential estates, swimming pools, gyms, beauty salons, and all such public places to shut down at this time, until further notice.

“As already stated,I reiterate again, let us refrain from gatherings or congregations of any kind at all at this time; and where we must absolutely gather, the number of persons in the gathering must not exceed fifty (50) persons”, he said.

He maintained that now is not the time to be meeting friends, planning playdates, planning weddings or planning any other social event but urged all to  stay at home and stay away from gatherings as much as you can help.
Governor Sanwo-Olu added that anyone caught flouting any of the above directives, as well as the previously issued directives will be dealt with to the fullest extent of the law.

“As I mentioned, law enforcement agencies and other relevant Lagos State protection agencies have been imbued with the power to deal with recalcitrant offenders.
” We will not relent in ensuring strict compliance with our directives”, Governor Sanwo-olu said






			
			PV: 
			0