The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire has called on China to assist Nigeria in the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic as the confirmed cases increase daily.
Ehanire, who made this plea when the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian visited the Ministry in Abuja, said that Nigeria is in dire need of technical support to enable the country win the fight against coronavirus just as China had done.
While commending the Chinese government for the measures put in place in making the country normal again, as businesses and organisations have been allowed to reopen, Ehanire said that same measures would be used in Nigeria to control the virus.
The Minister asked that the Chinese government support Nigeria with its public health experts, which would aid the country to review its strategies. He said that Nigeria would like to learn from the Chinese government on how they were able to put in place unprecedented containment and social distancing measures.
Ehanire said that in addition to public health experts, the country also needs Mobility for contact tracing, ventilators, testing kits, and Personal Protective Equipment,(PPE).
Commenting on the call of assistance from the minister, the Chinese ambassador said that China would not forget sympathy and support extended by Nigeria when the Chinese people were in the most challenging stage of battling the Coronavirus epidemic.
Pingjian said that the Chinese government have full confidence in Nigeria’s determination and capacity to defeat the virus ultimately, which is why it would try its best to provide medical supplies to Nigeria and do whatever it would do to support the country.
He also advocated for Nigerians to continue to treat the Chinese national in the country as their brothers and sisters, especially in these hard times.
“Virus respect no borders. In the face of public health emergencies, common challenge humanity, the most powerful weapon we have is solidarity and cooperation. To protect the health and wellbeing of the Nigerian people and actually all the people living in Nigeria, the authorities have been working assiduously on the epidemic response in a science-based, rational and professional way from day one.
“China will continue to share information and experience with Nigeria, and strengthen cooperation on containment, treatment and vaccines in response to the COVID-19 challenge, with a view to building together a community of shared health for mankind,” Pingjian added.
During the visit, the Chinese ambassador donated medical supplies and equipment to the ministry. The items include Gloves, N-95 mask, surgical mask, Shoe Cover, Head cover, Digital clinical thermometer and handheld non-contact infrared thermometer.
Also included are hand sanitizers with dispenser stands and refills, Chlorine disinfectant bleach, Disposable surgical gown, White Safety boots, liquid hand wash, Couch rolls, Tyvek suit, Goggles, laptop, desktop, printer, copier and scanner machine.





			
			PV: 
			0