1. PEPSI
After his debut album in 2011, Wizkid signed a one-year endorsement deal with Pepsi worth $350,000 in 2012.
He travelled to Beirut, Lebanon with Tiwa Savage for a Pepsi commercial shoot as at 2013, after the deal between Starboy and African Bad Girl had ended, a new lucrative 5-year deal was negotiated by Paul Okoye of management cunsultancy company, Upfront & Personal announced the contract extension by posting a photo on his Instagram page showing Tiwa, Wizkid and a white Caucasian female brandishing a can of Pepsi.
2. MTN
Within the year 2013, Ayodeji joined MTN Nigeria’s top ambassadors alongside Davido for a whopping deal of N40million.
After two years of aligning with the South African telecommunication company, Wizkid chose not to renew his contact further.
3. GUINNESS
Following his MTN deal in June, 2013; he went on to sign another deal with Guinness for the Guinness World of More concert, held at Eko Convention Centre of the Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Island, Lagos.
Tola Odunsi of Storn 360 took to his instagram handle to share the news with a photo of him, Wizkid and Wizkid’s ex manager Godwin Tom.
4. HENNESSY
After months of heightened anticipation and speculation, internationally acclaimed superstars, 2Face Idibia (now known as 2Baba) and Wizkid, were revealed as 2014 Hennessy Artistry headliners.
Widely known for monster hits and groundbreaking videos, the two joined a league of iconic talents who have headlined Hennessy Artistry in the past, such as Dbanj, MI, Tiwa Savage, Banky W and Shina Peters.
2Face and Wizkid also released their first-ever collaborative track for Hennessy Artistry during that year.
Wizkid went ahead to share this on his Instagram page: “This year’s Hennessy Artistry is going to be massive and I am really privileged to be working with legend, 2Face Idibia… I can’t wait to get into the studio with him!!!”
5. GLO
It was said in the year 2015, the Afro-Pop singer, Wizkid; ditched MTN an pitched his tent to Nigeria’s giant telco, GLO. The deal is worth N128million.
Formerly an MTN ambassador, he took to his Instagram to post pictures of him in GLO Office holding the company’s branding materials.
Starboy didn’t sign an extension deal with MTN but was lured by Mike Adenuga‘s heavy deal price.
6. DOLCE & GABBANNA
Starboy also signed a lucrative deal with Dolce & Gabbanna. It was rumored that the Italian luxury fashion house, D&G; paid Wizkid for wearing a lucid clothing with a mask just to walk down the runway with Naomi Campbell in Milan.
7. NIKE and NFF
Before the announcement of the World Cup in Russia, Wizkid posted a complete Nike-designed tracksuit, which also served as Nigerian Super Eagles official jersey in 2018.
The deal which also included the ex Arsenal Winger, Alex Iwobi; was brokered between the NFF and Nike is worth $3.75million (approximately N743million).
8. CIROC
Nigerian singer Wizkid is one of the new brand ambassador of CIROC ultra-premium vodka.
CIRCOC, promoted by Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs, is one of the world’s most exclusive vodka brands.
The singer, had tweeted that he would make a big announcement to come, leaving many fans and industry pundits guessing.
In an Instagram post, the singer shared a video in which he introduces himself as a brand ambassador for the vodka brand.
“Movement, my people. Starboy for Africa. Ciroc Boy. Officially. Don’t do drugs, do Ciroc,” he said.
9. UBA
The endorsement deal between UBA and Wizkid is the latest Starboy Entertainment signing.
Wizkid‘s mega deal with UBA is said to be worth $3million. This deal is also referred to as the biggest deal in Africa! Read here for more details about it.
10. Dolce and Gabbanna
Now a quick one, you should know how much Wizkid was paid by Dolce and Gabbanna. Dolce and Gabbanna paid Wizkid $20,000 to walk down the runway of a Fashion show held in Milan.
You also know the worth of Wizkid’s highest paid show. The event in which Wizkid was paid the highest was at a Royal Wedding held in one of the world’s top private residences in Umaid Bahwan Palace in India.
And how much does Wizkid collect per show? Well, no one knows for now. But what I know is that, it depends on the location, environment, duration, event and the deal you make with him.
Meanwhile, sources said, in 2019; Wizkid was paid N50million to perform at a Christmas concert held in Ilorin.
What is Wizkid’s net worth 2019? Wizkid’s net worth as at the year 2019 is over $18million.
Finally, Wizkid has also partnered with Moschino, Daily Paper, Nike (Starboy Jersey).

			
			PV: 
			0