Veteran singer Innocent Idibia popularly known as 2face or 2baba recently released an album titled “Warriors” which featured the most talented artistes in the music industry including the Starboy “Wizkid”, Tiwa savage, Olamide and Burna Boy. They all honoured 2baba by finding time despite their tight schedule to answer his call and record with him. All these four artistes didn’t fail to deliver as they gave 2baba dope verses, choruses and melodies which made the album an Interesting one.

However it is quite shocking to find out that despite collaborating with a respected music veteran like 2face, none of them could even repost the album or songs which featured them on their social media platforms. Fans saw this as a huge disrespect and wanted 2face to tackle them for doing this but he just kept the matter on a low. Here are 3 reasons why they refused to repost 2baba’s album.

1. They were too busy.

Yes they were too busy because going from concerts to concerts, interviews, Collaborations and recording their own songs might have made them forget about repost the album on their social media platforms.

2. They felt 2baba is no more the rave of the moment.

This is another major reason why they refused to show some love to the music veteran 2baba. imagine when Tiwa savage was in the studio with Naira Marley, she snapped pictures and uploaded them on her social media to inform her fans that something big is coming up between her and the Marlian record CEO. Also when Burna Boy collaborated with Zlatan, the whole industry knew this even before the song came out we saw pictures and so on.

3. All man for himself

Funny right? But this ain’t funny at all as this is another possible reason they refused to repost his album. If you take a close look at Olamide, Wizkid, Tiwa savage’s career you’ll find out that they all hustled their way to the top and 2face hasn’t done anything significant concerning their careers. If a collaboration happens between Wizkid and Banky W even if Wizkid doesn’t like the song he would at least reposted it on his social media because the later helped him during the onset of his career.


			
			PV: 
			0