1 Wole Soyinka (playwright)
This venerable and phenomenal personality is a Nigerian playwright and author who became the first African to win the Nobel prize in literature in 1986. He has published more than 20 plays including The Lion and the Jewel, A Dance of the Forests and The Strong Breed.

2 Femi Kuti (Musician)
Femi Kuti is the eldest child of the Afrobeat legend Fela Anikulap-Kuti. In 2001, he collaborated with American artists Mos Def and Jaguar Fight on his album, Fight to Win. The album sold over 500,000 copies.

The album is considered as the most popular Neo-Afrobeat album of this century.

3 Omotola Jalade Ekeinde (Actress)
Omotola was ranked as one of the most popular people in the world by Time Magazine in 2013. She is a woman of consequence.

A singer, actress and philanthropist. She has received a good number of high profile awards. She has featured in over 300 movies, selling millions of copies. She has a massive and incredible fan base and is rated Nigeria’s best actress and Africa’s biggest star.

4 Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (Novelist and Writer)
The creative Nigerian born author is perhaps the most popular contemporary writer from Africa. Her novel “Half of a Yellow Sun” won the 2007 orange prize for Fiction.

5 2face Idibia (Musician)
Tuface Idibia is a man of great talent. He shot to worldwide fame with his hit song African Queen. He has also received many awards.

In 2005, he received the MTV award for best African artist.

6 P-spuare (Musicians)
These two are one of the most successful musicians in Nigeria. The duo have risen to the peak of fame in Africa and beyond.

In 2010, they won the KORA award for artist of the year.

7 Genevieve Nnaji (Actress)
Genevieve Nnaji is an actress from Nigeria. She has starred in more than 80 Nigerian movies. This nollywood diva is widely admired as a woman of substance and a force to reckon with.

8 Don Jazzy (Musician and Record Producer)
Don Jazzy is a multiple award winning producer and number 1 beat maker.

9 D’banj (Musician)
Dapo Daniel Adebanjo better known as D’banj can be described as an outstanding musician. Kanye West signed him up as a producer on his GOOD music label in 2011.

10 Mikel Obi
Mikel Obi is an international footballer. He was a mid fielder in English club side, Chelsea. He played for Nigeria’s under-17 side at the 2003 world youth championship and the under-20 side in 2005. In 2014, he made his appearance at the FIFA world cup tournament in Brazil. Mikel set the stage to his fame and stardom. He is one of the Highest paid Nigerian international footballers.


			
			PV: 
			0