It is a sad moment for English football as the global deadly virus is finally in town.
National Daily gathered from the emanating reports that Nottingham Forest majority owner Evangelos Marinakis has stated “the recent virus has visited me” in a statement on his official Instagram page.
The Greek businessman insisted he was now following the advice of doctors regarding self-isolation after contracting coronavirus National Daily further learnt.
Marinakis confirmed his coronavirus status via his Instagram page
Marinakis said: “The recent virus has “visited” me and I felt obliged to let the public know.
Marinakis who is also the owner of Greek side Olympiakos, watched them beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium in north London less than a fortnight ago.
“I feel good as I take all the necessary measures and I discipline to the doctors instructions. I strongly advise all my fellow citizens to do the same. I wish all a quick recovery.”
The 52-year-old was in attendance for Forest’s last home game against Millwall on Friday.
Coronavirus has already seen all top flight matches in Italy postponed until April 3, with a similar situation in England now a serious threat.
Meanwhile, it has already been announced that Wolves’ Europa League last-16 tie at Olympiakos on Thursday will be played behind closed doors.
Sadly, the known cases of the virus in the UK has jumped to over 250 as the government is braced to move to the ‘delay stage’ of their action plan to tackle the risk of it spreading.
Spain’s La Liga have already announced some matches will be played behind closed doors in a bid to contain the virus.
Several Champions League fixtures will follow the same process, with Chelsea’s match away at Bayern Munich next week among them.
Italy and France have banned mass gatherings of over 1,000 people, and the UK could now follow suit, which could mean all Premier League and Football League matches being played without fans in attendance.
Premier League clubs have already been told to make plans for such an event.
Football bosses attended the Department of Culture, Media and Sport coronavirus meeting in London on Monday and while there is no immediate threat to games, they have been told to make sure they are prepared.
 




			
			PV: 
			0