Former Super Eagles star Seyi Olofinjana is working with Premier League club Wolves after bagging degrees, while Ikenwa Nnabuogor  preaches the need for Nigerian players to acquire basic education so as to help during their football careers and even after.
Olofinjana explained that lack of basic education has remained an albatross for Nigerian players and most times this has left them cursing their luck and living in penury.
Though times are changing with less stories of players signing miserable contracts as a result of lacking adequate knowledge concerning contract signing, a slight departure of sad stories way back in the past.
This is indeed cannot be said of their counterparts in Europe and to some great extent in the North and Southern Africa, where players have enjoyed considerable level of success post careers.
Even till date, footballers in Nigeria are sadly regarded as never-do-wells in school and only have the beautiful game to lean on for survival and a veritable route to escape poverty.
Though this assumption could draw a serious debate among stakeholders, in truth most do not still have the basic education to handle their careers and be financially independent when their careers are long over.
The Nigerian player’s lack of basic education has most times given them away in areas of contract signing at foreign clubs.
Sad cases abound – many players have been caught in the vicious web of agents who capitalize on the poor educational backgrounds of these players to put more money in their pockets than in the players’ pockets, where naturally and statutorily  more money should be.
Typical example was the case of promising Chibuzo Okonkwo, who was swarmed by an army of agents after posting a superlative performance at 2008 Beijing Olympics, leaving him with sad tales.
Okonkwo could not tie down a contract in Europe despite his immense talent, only managing a brief spell in Libya.
Agents should be held responsible for the sad path Okonkwo’s career took. Versatile, young former Bayelsa United star ought to have made his name at a top European club had he not been “confused” by agents.
Yours truly is a familiar actor in the business of player’s management and has continued the crusade of players having at least the basic education to equip themselves to handle Shylock agents hovering around them like hawks.
Many have been brainwashed by these agents most with loaded pockets, clout, connections but have done little to properly equip their clients for the harsh post-career weather. Many players have not recovered from this and most times deaths end the sad stories.
I can authoritatively tell you that our players are the authors of their sad ending including the educated ones.

			
			PV: 
			0