Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday disclosed plans by the Federal Government to provide solar home systems to about five million households in Nigeria within the next one year.
President Buhari at the first-year Ministerial Performance Review Retreat at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, observed that some Nigerians are not yet connected to electricity.
The President, represented at the retreat by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, stated: “In addressing the power problems, we must not forget that most Nigerians are not even connected to electricity at all.
“So, as part of the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP), we are providing solar home systems to five million Nigerian households (impacting up to 25 million individual Nigerians) in the next 12 months.”
The President revealed that the federal government has already commenced the process of providing financing assistance to manufacturers and retailers of Off-Grid Solar Home Systems and Mini-Grids. He said that they will provide the systems through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
President Buhari noted that the five million systems under the ESP’s Solar Power Strategy will generate 250,000 jobs and further impact about 25 million beneficiaries during installation.
The President said the project will empower more Nigerians to have access to electricity sustainable through the solar system. President Buhari anticipated that the solar home system manufacturers and the bulk procurement of local meters would create over 300,000 local jobs, in addition to setting Nigeria on a path to full electrification.
President Buhari stated: “We are also executing some critical projects through the Transmission Rehabilitation and Expansion Programme, which will result in the transmission and distribution of a total of 11,000 Megawatts by 2023.” The federal government, he said, has developed N2.3 trillion ESP (consisting of fiscal, monetary, and sectoral measures) to enhance local production, support businesses, retain and create jobs, and provide succour to Nigerians, especially the most vulnerable as part of its response to the challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

				
				PV: 
				5
			Share this on WhatsApp