Share this on WhatsApp
 


A Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) team at Eti-osa has helped deliver a newborn baby under Ajah bridge.
In a post shared on Facebook, it was gathered that 35 year-old mother, Blessing Emmanuel from Cross River state had no home or family in Lagos and was fond of roaming around Ajah bridge. After she fell into labour, LASEMA’s ‘Operation Storm’ Response Team was the only available medical option.
The team helped her deliver her baby boy safely before taking them to Island Maternity Hospital for continued expert medical care.
The post read;
… Amidst Several Other Operations Under Ajah Bridge in Eti-Osa
While LASEMA Response Team on Saturday 19th September, 2020 was evacuating carcas of burnt tanker, 40ft containerized truck loaded with generator sets and the burnt lowbed conveying an excavator from the ‘Tanker on Fire’ incident of Friday 18th September, the Agency was also blanketing another fallen oil Tanker yesterday morning to avoid another fire, a few metres from the Friday night incident scene at Anthony inward Gbagada.
Amidst all of these operations, LASEMA’s ‘Operation Storm’ Response Team stationed at Eti-Osa, under Ajah bridge as part of the proactive measures of the Agency to mitigate against harzards that may trail gridlock following closure of Third Mainland Bridge, has taken delivery of a life baby boy.
35 year-old indigene of Cross Rivers State, Ms. Blessing Emmanuel, a semi-destitute, with no home, nor family in Lagos, and fond of roaming around under the Ajah bridge, fell in labour and LASEMA’s ‘Operation Storm’ Response Team was the only available medical option.
As a complete medical team with an Ambulance at its disposal, presence of LASEMA’s ‘Operation Storm’ Response Team under the Ajah bridge in Eti-osa was timely and made delivery of Ms. Blessing of a life and healthy baby boy safe and easy.
In line with its responsibility of saving lives, after successfully completing the task of delivering Ms. Blessing of the life, male neonate under the Bridge in record time, mother and child were taken to the Island Maternity Hospital in stable condition, for continued, expert medical care.
Share this on WhatsApp