Governor Seyi Makinde
        Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State have vowed to unseat Governor Seyi Makinde, and reclaim the state back from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) come 2023.
The party leaders disclosed this on Thursday during a peace meeting organized by its stalwarts to settle the crises rocking the party.
The APC stakeholders who urged their supporters and other members of the party to see themselves as one, insisted that the need to come together is necessary to unseat the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government.
At the meeting were Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Professor Adeolu Akande, a former Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu, Senators Soji Akanbi and Ayo Adeseun and Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi who chaired the meeting.
Other APC stalwarts at the meeting were Chief Goke Oyetunji, Barrister Niyi Akintola, Alhaji Fatal Ibikunle, Honourables Saheed Fijabi, Bosun Oladele and Sunbo Olugbemi.
In the communique signed by a former Secretary to the State Government who is the Chairman of the communique drafting committee, Alhaji Waheed Olajide and Chairman of NCC, Professor Adeolu Akande who is the Secretary of the communique drafting committee, the party noted that all contentious issues within the party have been examined and resolved.
“Members of the APC in Oyo State were implored to resolve their differences and work for the unity of the party. All contentious issues that led to the crisis in the party were examined and addressed. They were informed that the party will soon hold congresses to elect new executives in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory.
“The party will thereafter hold a convention latest by January 2021. The two groups that attended the meeting with the committee were directed to nominate three (3) members each that will oversee the fresh registration of all members with the executive committee of the party.
“The reports by the representatives to the meetings in Abuja were deliberated upon and the consensus is that every party member should support the peace initiative of the National Caretaker Committee. The meeting accepted all the proposals for peace as contained in the reports of representatives to the meetings in Abuja.
Share this on WhatsApp