Pastor Chris leading his global audience to pray for nations 
        Share this on WhatsApp

…Says “Things have changed, we are no more bystanders”






 


Contrary to anticipation by many that certain non-state actors who work behind the scenes to control nations and global institutions will orchestrate a much awaied New World Order, Presidnt, Loveworld Incorporated, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, has dropped what many believe is a stunning revelation that the coming New World Order will come through The Church.
Recall that the outbreak of the COVID-19 had adverse effect on standards of living in different nations of the world. The alleged teleguided responses of governments of nations by way of emergency legislation as well as implementation of protocols that many believe were unscientific equally led to the anticipation of a so-called new world order; A new way of doing things.
Also Read: COVID-19 controversies: Is Pastor Chris not now exonerated?
But while teaching during a recently held ‘Your LoveWorld Specials’ (Season II, Phase IV), watched by over 3.5billion participants, the LoveWorld President unequivocally stated that the Church of Jesus Christ has been empowered to determine the New World Order. “The new world order planned by those functioning with the spirit of the Antichrist, will not stand but that ordained by God through the Church,” he prophetically declared.
Pastor Chris however, explained that the Church must imbibe three important virtues necessary to birth a Godly New Order for the world. These virtues, according to him, include: Prayer, ministry and protagonism.
Quoting copiously from the Holy Scriptures Pastor Chris who read from 1 Timothy 2:1-4, taught that The Church has the responsibility to engage in all forms of prayers to usher in this new desired order.  He further posited that this was man’s world and God requires man’s invitation to interfere in the activities of the world. “Chaos is inevitable if we don’t take charge through prayers” he stressed.
Expounding on the important role of ‘ministry’, the man of God called on Christians around the world to answer God’s call on their lives and be committed to the ministry of reconciliation. Spurring the saints to be proactive rather than reactive, Pastor Chris identified ‘protagonism’ as a necessary requirement for the initiation of the next world order.
Also Read: Pastor Chris Oyakhilome initiates Global Emergency Food Relief for Ministers of the Gospel
Recounting the prominent role of the Church in Western Europe, towards civilization in the 12th and 13th centuries, the man of God encouraged the saints to attain prominence in the educational sector, health, industry, and other sectors in the society. God’s people paid rapt attention to the teachings of the man of God, poised to act on the Word immediately.
While many nations may have reached a standstill, uncertain of the future, the Church is charting its vicarious course to establish God’s will and righteousness in the earth. Pastor Chris charged the Church to be more watchful in prayers. “We are no more bystanders, the new world order will come through us,” he remarked.
‘Your LoveWorld Specials’ (Season II, Phase IV), was beamed live to a mammoth global audience via LoveWorld TV Networks, over 500 terestial TV and Radio Stations and various internet platforms.




				
				PV: 
				66
			Share this on WhatsApp