Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Nigeria Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) has issued a 10-day strike notice to the federal government, effective September 24, 2020 in protest to the order banning tankers with 45,000-litre capacity from lifting petroleum products in the country.
The body also ordered all its members to withdraw trucks, especially petrol tankers nationwide, today (Tuesday) and tomorrow (Wednesday), September 22 and 23.
Addressing newsmen in Abuja, National President of NARTO, Yusuf Othman, said the association received with shock the recent government decision to place immediate ban on all petroleum trucks above 45,000 litres capacity from plying Nigeria roads.
Othman claimed that the Federal Government did not consult with transport owners before taking the decision, adding that the government also did not give them ample time to prepare for the implementation of the policy.
He described the sudden ban as highly insensitive and unappreciative of the efforts and contributions of NARTO members as businessmen and investors in the very critical and sensitive distribution and supply chains of petroleum products across the country.
He also warned that if trucks with 45,000-litres capacity were withdrawn suddenly and promptly as being demanded by the government’s decision, it would create another side effect of avoidable unemployment, especially as it is estimated that more than 40,000 drivers/drivers mate and artisans would lose their jobs.
He said, “For the records, we wish to state very strongly that our members are already discouraged and distressed even with the fact that the transport sector which is one of the sectors that are worse hit by the COVID-19 pandemic because of the total restriction of movement, the federal government refused to extend some intervention to the sector as done to many sectors of the economy including Aviation, Agriculture and others.
“We can assure you that none of the major transport companies across the country can continue any form of operations with this policy within this short time frame.
“In view of the above, we are therefore constraint to allow the decision of all our members to park their trucks as from tomorrow 22nd to 23rd September, 2020, prevail as warning, and furthermore, issue 10 days ultimatum with effect from 24th September, 2020 for a full blown withdrawal of service.
“If such scenarios occur, we earnestly plead with those who will lose employment, income and general public that will be negatively affected by this avoidable situation.”
Share this on WhatsApp