Share this on WhatsApp














The fireworks in the buildup to the September 19 governorship election in Edo State is getting intensified between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). The political brinkmanship is being taken to high altitude as supporters of the leading candidates in the two political parties deploy plots to market their respective principals better than the other.

Accordingly, the Special Adviser to incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, accused a billionaire businessman in Benin City, Captain Hosa Okunbo, of sponsoring the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, not in the interest of the but, alleging Okunbo’s support was an investment to control the treasury of Edo State.

National Daily learnt that the S.A. Media to the governor in a statement in Benin City, interrogated  Okunbo’s interview published on Monday criticizing the incumbent Edo governor. He refuted the claims of nonperformance of the incumbent governor. Osagie remarked that the sterling performance of Obaseki is visible across the three senatorial districts in the state.
He declared: “In the interview Okunbo granted journalists in Abuja, he said he does not invest in any venture without first assessing the profit motive. He also said that he will spend his last kobo backing Ize-Iyamu.“So, clearly, Okunbo is investing in Ize-Iyamu with the treasury of Edo State in mind. This is the reason they want Governor Obaseki out of the way, so that he can grab the treasury of Edo State to service his outlandish lifestyle. Edo State will have nothing left in the treasury to pay pensioners, teachers and other government workers.“Edo people know that the return on Okunbo’s investment in Ize-Iyamu is the entire Edo State’s treasury. All the accusations of nonperformance he made against the Governor in the interview are all lies, concocted to put the governor in bad light.”

 


Osagie further remarked that Governor Obaseki is still in control of the state politics. According to Osagie: “If Governor Obaseki is not on ground, why is Okunbo investing his billions in Ize-Iyamu? No one needs billions of naira to defeat an unpopular candidate.
“Okunbo also dropped subtle threats in the interview when he said that he has 3,000 youths in the Niger Delta that are ready to overrun Edo State. The security agencies should take note of these threats and watch him closely as we approach the election.
“Okunbo needs to understand how the various social media platforms work. No one controls or gags social media. What Edo youths have been posting with regard to the achievements of the Governor are on ground for everyone to see.
“These Edo youths actually go to project sites like the Benin Modular Refinery, the CCETC-Ossiomo Independent Power plant project, the several road projects, including bridges, the Secretariat Complex, the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun Training Centre, TV Road, Ehaikpen Street, and Lucky Way, and other projects to take pictures and interview people living in those neighborhoods, which they post on social media.
“Okunbo also insulted the intelligence of Edo people in the Diaspora when he suggested that they are being deceived by social media posts. Unknown to the APC sponsor, our Diaspora community is in touch with the daily happenings in Edo State.
“They are beneficiaries of the various policies and programmes of the Obaseki-led government. Most of them own houses in the state and  have benefited from the Anti-Community Development Association Law, which has removed thugs from building and construction sites.
“Most of them now have Certificates of Occupancy for their property in the state through the Edo Geographic Information Service agency (EDOGIS), initiated by Godwin Oabseki. Edo people cannot be deceived by the propaganda being sponsored by Okunbo.”

















				
				PV: 
				28
			Share this on WhatsApp