Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the disbursement of N10 billion to transporters in Nigeria as palliatives after the pump price of petrol was increased by the federal government. Accordingly, the Ministry of Transportation on Friday disclosed the constitution of a committee that will supervise the disbursement of the fund to transport operators in the country.
The Minister of State for Transportation, Gbemisola Saraki, had in a statement by the Director of Press and Public Relations, Eric Orjiekwe, on Thursday in Abuja, notified the immediate past National President, Alhaji Najmudeen Yasin, and the incumbent National President of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Prof. Tajudeen Lawal, visited her in Abuja, of the committee and the federal government intervention fund in the transport sector.
The statement indicated that Saraki disclosed that members of the committee were selected from the Ministry of Transportation and all other relevant stakeholders in the transportation sector. The Minister counseled the unions to consider alliance towards one recognized group that the Ministry can relate with for proper and speedy disbursement of the fund. She noted that a united union is necessary to avoid delay in disbursing the fund, which may not achieve the essence of the palliative intervention of the federal government.
Saraki congratulated the new NURTW President on his election, observing that the task before him was daunting but not insurmountable. She, then, encouraged the new president to steer the union’s affairs in the right direction.
 
Saraki commended them for their perseverance during the lockdown as their livelihood was disrupted by safety protocols put in place by the government to curb the spread of the pandemic.
She appreciated the fact that the sector had continued to thrive through sheer efforts on the part of members.
She added that the government was now positioned to improving the conditions of service as over 90 per cent of Nigerians travelled by road.
The former NURTW President, Yasin, had disclosed that the purpose of their visit was to officially present the new National President of the Union to the Minister. He told the minister to disregard the numerous associations parading as representatives of road transport workers and operators.
The former president explained that the NURTW, which had existed for 21 years, is the only recognised representative of road transport workers and the Ministry should do well to work with it.
The new President of the union, Lawal, noted that NURTW members suffered directly and indirectly during the pandemic and prayed the Ministry to concede a larger portion of the palliative to their members. He thanked the Minister for the audience.
The federal government palliative to transp;orters is coming about two weeks after the federal government increased the pump price of petrol at loading points at the depots to N151.50 per litre which led to retail price increase of N160 per litre in different parts of Nigeria.
 

				
				PV: 
				16
			Share this on WhatsApp