Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The ousted national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, and his anointed candidate for the Edo election, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, are beginning to struggle with the failed project of unseating incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19 governorship election in the state. They were perceived to have recruited a falsehood specialist to run down the entire system in Edo State, blackmailing the governor to cause distraction.
Stakeholders in Edo State were of the view that sensing imminent defeat at the polls on Saturday September 19, the APC is throwing everything into the battle, struggling to pull its candidate off the depth of the river.
Former Director General of the PDP Governors Forum, Earl Osaro Onaiwu, issued a strong warning to George Uboh over his recruitment to damage the image of Governor Obaseki under the guise of being a whistleblower on non-existing allegations.
Earl Osaro Onaiwu, had in a statement in Abuja, urged the people of Edo State to neglect a video being circulated in the social media by George Uboh, where he is pretending to be a whistle blower on perceived impropriety in Edo State by incumbent Governor Obaseki.
Earl Osaro Onaiwu decried that George Uboh was on an evil mission to reactivate a failed project of Oshiomhole and Ize-Iyamu of the APC, with a ploy to divert the commitment of Edo people and their determination to sustain their support for Obaseki in recognition of his good governance.
Onaiwu scolded Oshiomhole, Ize-Iyamu and Captain Hosa Okunbo who, he said, have degenerated so low, losing relevance in the state and resorting to hiring a serial blackmailer to dent the image and personality of Governor Obaseki in the final lap of the buildup to the governorship election in Edo State.
He added that the APC leaders resorted to recruiting a blackmail agent when they have realized that their defeat is imminent in the Saturday election.
Onaiwu admonished Uboh to keep off Edo State, noting that his treacherous characters cannot be tolerated in Edo. He further warned that Uboh was expected to be recovering from his elongated detention, following his failed con game to blackmail and extort the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, both of whom are from same community in Delta State.
Onaiwu made the caveat that the APC candidate and his sponsors will focus on life after defeat on Saturday than relating and recruiting a well know jail bird and EFCC customer to destroy the governor’s personality.
Share this on WhatsApp