Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Voters in Edo State have reached a consensus to reject the plea by the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to vote against incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki in the Saturday election in the state. They were gathered to have resolved to massively support the incumbent governor for a second tenure. The people maintained that Edo is not Lagos, adding that the state is not for sale, or an entity they would allow to be captured by an individual godfather.
Meanwhile, the Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Communications and Publicity, Felix Umoru, in a statement expressed watching with great disappointment on television, his perceived “quivering, uncourt and evil request for the Edo People to deny Governor Obaseki of his well-deserved second tenure.”
Umoru argued: “in his political misadventure and machinations in thwarting the will of the people of Edo State, one is tempted to wonder if he thinks that his devilish request can in any way discourage the collective resolve of all Edo People waiting to excitedly secure a second term in office for their amiable and performing Governor.”
he added: “Somebody should please wake him up from his slumber to the realities on ground in Edo State.
He should be lectured about how that power has now returned to the people, unlike the current trend in Lagos, where his hold on power shall soon be eroded by the tsunami of goodwill of the ordinary people, armed with a simple resolve to take back what rightfully belongs to them. Tyranny exists but for a short time.”
Umoru was of the view that Tinubu should be lectured that the regime of tyranny has been subjugated by the prayers of the Edo People, to whom God has responded and has dispatched the hosts of heavens to defend and uphold their unbreakable resolve to retire the godfathers and their greedy goons.
Umoru cautioned: “Also, let Tinubu know that 10 million security personnel cannot steal or subvert the will of the people. And that come September 19, the people shall speak with one voice with their PVS to return their God-sent Governor, in the person of Godwin Obaseki.
“Edo is truly not Lagos!
“4+4 is sacrosanct.”
Share this on WhatsApp