Share this on WhatsApp

Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu of Edo State on Friday reassured the people of the state that incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki is convinced that he has covenant of a better Edo State in terms of development, human capital development and the overall standard of living of all resident of the state.
National Daily gathered that Deputy Governor Shaibu in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on media, Benjamin Atu, has remarked that the state is fortunate to have competent people in leadership under the supervision of Obaseki.
Comrade Shaibu had declared:  “Edo State is fortunate to have people of Character and competence who are able and ready to strike the necessary alliance to orchestrate a truly reformatory government and a morally reinvigorated Society.
“Governor Obaseki has a covenant of better Edo State with the people. A better Edo State, not in the vulgar sense of it but as already been demonstrated by the administration’s discipline in the prudent management of the state resources for the benefit of the masses.
“We need a genuine transformation of Edo State from the hands of charlatans; a bunch of iniquitous men who are seeking for opportunity to victimized us in our father’s land.”
The Deputy Governor further said: “the incumbent administration has a covenant with the people to break away from the prevailing political culture of equerry. A culture that encourages the public to worship poor leadership and making a monster out of an act.
“Governor Godwin Obaseki has a contract with the people of Edo State to provide the needed leadership that will sharpen and encourage entrepreneurship as a culture in order to crush poverty through entrepreneurship.
“Poverty is man-made and can also be extinguished by man through appropriate policy framework like the ones already put in place by the current administration. Poverty was created by recklessness of previous administrations.”
Comrade Shaibu decried that poverty destroys human dignity and encourages vulnerability. He said that the Obaseki administration is determine to develop more  effective framework to eliminate poverty in his second term and butter the bread of citizens in the state.
Shaibu maintained that  Governor Obaseki is committed to move Edo State forward which can be perceived in his strong will backed up policies of sustainable goals and verifiable actions on a consistent basis.
The deputy governor appealed to the people for massive support at the polls. He enjoined  the people of Edo State to reject those parading simple agenda, adding that the social system of Edo State will suffocate and consume the simple agenda and its contents, saying that simple agenda is a thoughtless and absentminded approach to governance.
Shaibu reiterated that  the September 19 Governorship election in Edo State is a call to duty for the perfect candidate. “It is a call for an angelic politician who has no corruption tag in his name,” he declared.

				
				PV: 
				13
			Share this on WhatsApp