Share this on WhatsAppThe Peoples Democratic party (PDP) has thrown fresh challenge to Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State to clarify his role in the controversies surrounding the establishment of a fruit factory in Ehor, Uhunmwode Local Government Area when he was Secretary to the Edo State Government.
Dan Orbih, Chairman of PDP Campaign Council, at Ward-to-Ward rally in Ehor on Monday, challenged the APC governorship candidate to explain to the people of the state how tax-payers money was spent on the phantom industry and its privatisation.
Orbih alleged that Ize-Iyamu denied the people of Uhunmwode opportunities of deriving benefits from the factory which was meant to provide succour and better standard of living for the people.
Orbih declared: “The present APC candidate played a key role in the establishment of Ehor fruit factory that never work.
“He has no reason to come here for Campaign. How do you explain to Edo people the millions of tax-payers money that was used to establish that company that never produce a sachet of fruit juice.”
Incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki, PDP candidate in the election, urged voters in Ehor to reject any political party that does not bring prosperity to the people. Obaseki assured the people that he would correct the marginalisation of Uhunmwode Local Government Area was subjected to by the past administration, provide more infrastructure to the ones already done.
“We have constructed over 27 roads in Uhunmwode. Who says there are no roads in Uhunmwode?
“We must change the way we do things in Edo and make sure that the godfather does not come back,” Obaseki said.
The Enogie of Ehor, His Royal Highness. Godwin Ogiehor, on behalf of the Council of Enigie (Dukes) in Uhunmwode Local Government Area, demanded incumbent Governor Obaseki to use the skill acquisition centre in the area for a temporary hospital to treat accident victims.
The Enogies declared their endorsement of Obaseki, praying for him and his running mate, Philip Shaibu. The traditional rulers acknowledged that Obaseki is their son and they will support him.
“Obaseki is our son. We will support your re-election with prayers. We have approved Eight years for you, hence, the laws permit you to run for a second term in office.
“We did it before for your predecessor who was a non-native against one of our own.
“You will complete your second tenure. The ancestors have approved it.
“Your campaign is a formality. Uhunmwode is the gateway,” Ogiehor declared.
Former Senate Minority Whip, Rowland Owie, lamented the travesty of futile attempts by former Governor of the State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to frustrate his successor whom he described as a trail blazer from completing his tenure having had support from Benin leaders of thoughts and the Traditional rulers in his time.

				
				PV: 
				11
			Share this on WhatsApp