Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
By Odunewu Olusegun
A Nigerian woman who identified herself as Gozie Nwachinemelu Udemezue has lamented the plights of Nigerians abroad who wish to come home but are being frustrated by the Nigerian government through an exploitative policy in the name of mandatory COVID-19 test.
In a 15-minute video posted on Facebook page, Udemezue said many Nigerians wanting to return home from abroad after the resumption of international flight operations are now trapped because of the protocol put in place by the federal government.
“There is this protocol that is in place, which says that before you come home, within 96 hours you should go in for a COVID-19 test and have the result. Now when you have the result, you go online and upload and then pay N50,400, that is outrageous, if I’m travelling with a child, that means I will be N100,800. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 test here is mostly free, except you want it so quickly”
“Listen, I don’t know whether it’s a curse to be a Nigerian, or whether we did something wrong as a country. The stress of going through the test is tasking, and yet you have to wait and get the QR code that will still not come out on time.
“Why is our country so wicked? Why is our government so wicked? Listen if you watch this video and still come out to defend this government, I will curse you because you’re in Nigeria and don’t know what those outside the country is facing.
“Where are all the billions of Naira that Nigerians donated for this COVID-19 pandemic? A lot of Nigerians made donations running into billions. Can’t Nigerians do the test when they arrive in the country? Now a lot of people are stranded.
According to her, to come to Nigeria, you have to pay N50,400, and also wait to get your QR code before you’re allowed to board a plane back to Nigeria. “Listen, it’s unfair, really unfair. A lot of Nigerian citizens here in America travelling to other countries do not pay such a huge amount for COVID-19 test. They don’t even pay anything at all.
Udemezue explained that a lot of Nigerian citizens in America travelling to other countries do not pay such a huge amount for COVID-19 test.
“People have done the COVID-19 test, and they have paid the N50, 400 but are yet to get the QR code from the designated laboratory, and with the code you can’t board your flight, therefore, many people are stranded outside the country right now.
“We’re too docile in Nigeria and that is why these policy makers are treating us anyhow. Listen if you don’t have any business in Nigeria, you had better stay where you are. It is a jungle out there in Nigeria,” she added.
Meanwhile when contacted an official with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, (NCAA) said the agency has directed airlines to allow passengers without QR codes to board flights in order to ease the difficulties travelers face trying to access government portal to upload information.
 
Share this on WhatsApp