Share this on WhatsApp
 


Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, and Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, on their victory in the governorship election in Edo State.
Governor Okowa in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba on Sunday, described the re-election of Obaseki as “the confirmation of the will of the people” and called on Nigerians to always stand for good leaders as Edo people just did for Obaseki.
The Delta governor noted that the people of Edo across the 18 local government areas spoke loudly and clearly in their reaffirmation of the choice of Obaseki as their Governor.
The governor, who is the Chairman of South-South Governors’ Forum, stated that with the re-election of Obaseki, the entire Niger Delta region is now controlled by the PDP.
“Let me congratulate my brother Governor, Godwin Obaseki, and his Deputy, Comrade Philip Shaibu, on their victory in the Sept. 19 Governorship election in Edo.
“It is heart-warming to see you re-emerge as Governor of Edo against all odds and I am grateful to the people of Edo for shunning the entreaties of retrogressive forces who were deviously-bent on subverting the wishes of the people.
“Let me also thank the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for being truly independent as required by the laws of our land.
“The most significant aspect of this victory is the peaceful outcome of the election as Edo people proved pundits wrong by ensuring that the elections were devoid of violence,” Okowa declared.
Felicitating with the PDP on the victory, Okowa said, “let me also congratulate our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and the Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council and Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, and other members of the Campaign Council for their efforts which led to the victory of the party in Edo.
“The brotherhood displayed by the Governors of the PDP and other party members towards the re-election of Obaseki is what the country needs to take the nation to greater heights in 2023.
“Going forward as a nation, we can only develop further if the people are allowed to choose their leaders at all levels without any hindrance.
“It is therefore a clarion call on INEC to continue to do the right thing as an unbiased umpire.
“On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I congratulate you my brother Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki and your deputy, Comrade Philip Shaibu, on your resounding re-election by the resilient people of Edo who displayed honour, dignity and courage.
“It is my prayer that God will grant you wisdom, knowledge and the needed resources to attend to your campaign promises to the people,” Okowa said.
Governor Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was declared winner of the Saturday governorship election in Edo by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) having polled 307,955 votes to defeat Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who got 223,619 votes.
Share this on WhatsApp