Share this on WhatsApp
Kicks PDP doctoring agents list in Government House


 


The All Progressives Congress (APC) is returning fire with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the buildup to the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. APC on Monday disclosed that the PDP and its candidate have realized they are ill-prepared for the election and trying to find shortcut to victory. The party also said that Governor Godwin Obaseki is being deceived by the false claim by Anselm Ojesua, parading himself as “APC chairman”. The party said Ojesua has since seized to be APC chairman after Obaseki, his master and sponsor, had defected to PDP.
APC also raised an alarm that less than two weeks to the September 19 election, confusion has struck the Peoples Democratic Party and the governor’s camp.
The Chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, in a statement alleged that Governor Godwin Obaseki was caught out, trying to submit to INEC, a list of agents doctored at the Edo State Government House, for some parties he had been sponsoring, noting though that exercise closed on September 5.
Mayaki identified the parties include APM, ADP, NRM and Labour Party. He alleged that the governor and the PDP have been sponsoring and working in cahoots with the parties form the forthcoming election.
Mayaki declared: “Whatever Obaseki hopes to achieve with his concert of losers is not clear.
“Just two weeks to go, you could see the confusion in the Obaseki camp.  It is getting clear to them they will be thrashed on election day.  So, it is electoral mischief galore, even of a most hare-brained kind – or how do you explain trying to smuggle in agents’ names when the exercise has closed?”
Mayaki reiterated part of Obaseki’s burden is the antics of Anselm Ojesua, claiming to be “APC chairman” after he has since lost his membership.
Mayaki further declared: “There is no solution to a delusion of grandeur!  Which APC is Ojesua chairing?  The one corralled by the PDP ‘task collectors’  – to use the words of Rivers State Governor Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, who should know – or the Edo APC, which formidable campaign is throwing Obaseki and his PDP hustlers and opportunists into blind panic?”
He was of the view that PDP is expected to be in confusion because the party lacks grassroots support.
Mayaki maintained: “Each passing day, you would hear them groan and cry, and do things real crazy.  But so, would you, if you knew you were set for a total and comprehensive electoral hiding.  That is the fate of Edo PDP;” saying: “ill luck is not transferable!”
 

				
				PV: 
				31
			Share this on WhatsApp