Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A new online poll conducted by Ripples shows that many people are likely to vote Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming governorship election scheduled for September 19 than his main contender, and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The online poll attracted 1,048, 872 views, with 7,129 votes cast.
Governor Godwin Obaseki received 3,368 votes representing 47.2 percent, while Pastor Ize-Iyamu got 3,351 votes, representing 47.0 percent of the total votes. Candidates of other political parties mopped up the remaining 410 votes representing 5.8 percent.
With a mere .02 per cent separating the two front runners, the outcome suggests a possible keen contest between Obaseki, who is the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
According to a recent report, 46 per cent of respondents lack confidence in INEC’s ability to promote credible elections, 50 per cent question the electoral umpires’ independence and 44 per cent doubt the institutions’ preparedness for election.
Though the survey predicts a very close contest, it cannot conveniently discount other extraneous factors that may work together to change the direction of voting and alter its final outcomes.
The structure of governance in Nigeria reserves so much power in the presidency and successive administrations have always been tempted to abuse the advantage.
Some of the very influential institutions of state that could impact the poll include the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the military, Department of State Services (DSS), the Police and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC).
The result of a recent survey says about 48 per cent of respondents are concerned violence may be instigated by security agents.
The main opposition party, PDP, has continued to make reference to Buhari’s powers as part of its campaign rhetoric. Whether Mr President would guarantee fair play, as pledged by him, remains a matter of conjecture.

				
				PV: 
				34
			Share this on WhatsApp