Share this on WhatsApp
 


By Simisola Ademuyiwa
In 1948, a renowned minister of God, by the name John Wesley  made a profound statement that till today, still boggles the hearts of many religious folks, he said  “It seems God is limited by our prayer life—that He can do nothing for humanity unless someone asks Him.” We were told, . ”Que sera sera, whatever will be will be, the future is not for us, whatever will be will be. Ultimately, fate decided the outcome of our reality. 
Many have believed this lie, and constantly ”blame God” for their lives not turning out right. they blame him for natural disasters, a loved one’s death, they  blame God for everything negative that happens to them. 
Also Read: Pastor Chris set to network billions at his Global Day of Prayer, today
You see, God is not ruling in this world. He is not ruling on the earth. Undoubtedly, He will one day!  But right now His will is not being carried out on the earth—except in the lives of those who are yielded  to Him. To blame him for the outcome of our lives, is a conspiracy of the devil to draw the hearts of weak and feeble men from the truth.
In the book of Beginnings, God said  “Adam, I give you dominion over all the work of my hands” (Gen. 1:26-27; Ps. 8:6). God gave control of the world to Adam, Adam committed high treason and sold out to the devil. When that happened, Satan automatically  became the god of this world. As such, he has dominion in this world  (2 Corinthians 4:4)

Also Read: A new world order will come through the Church &#8211; Pastor Chris Oyakhilome

He will have that dominion and remain the god of this world until Adam’s lease runs out. God cannot legally and justly move in and take away that dominion from the devil. The devil has dominion here. He has a legal right because he has Adam’s lease. And God cannot do anything unless somebody down here asks Him.
Every now and again, there is a call of the Spirit for Christians to pray, the scriptures show us different accounts, where God needed People to pray before he could get intervene in their situation, and cause a change.Many times we ignore the call, or we are too consumed by our personal desires and motives that we forget there is a Priestly ministry expected of us to our world. TheCovid-19 fiasco of previous months have shown to us, the Church was indeed asleep. But No More! Affliction shall not arise a second time,  No! not on our watch
The 3rd edition of the Global Day of Prayer is scheduled to hold on Friday, September 25th, and would be broadcast Live on all Loveworld Networks, Terrestrial TV Stations, Radio Stations, across the globe, and various internet platforms. The penultimate Global Prayer call organized in March 27th we witnessed over 3 Billion Christians praying from around the world, it was thereafter we had started to witness the most significant changes in the world. Saturday Call is on again, and this time, we must respond swiftly, this is beyond a call for a particular denomination or  group, this is a Call of the Spirit to the Church of Jesus Christ at this time.
This is not a drill, we are actively in a Warfare, and there are no middle grounds. We are not about to retreat neither are we about to surrender.
The world is ours to win, and we can as well dominate and control it, howbeit, through Prayers.
Join us now to participate through any of these TV Stations in Nigeria
Join Pastor Chris & Saints around the world for the Global Day of Prayer
FRIDAY – DAY 1
NTA 2 CHANNEL 5 –
GOTV CHANNEL 114, DSTV CHANNEL 175
(7-9pm)
MITV –
GOTV CHANNEL, DSTV CHANNEL 257, STARTIMES CHANNEL 120 (6PM -9Pm)
STV –
GOTV CHANNEL 92, DSTV CHANNEL 252, STARTIMES CHANNEL 109 (6PM- 9PM)
GALAXY –
GOTV CHANNEL 99, DSTV CHANNEL 258, STARTIMES CHANNEL 111 (6PM – 9Pm)
LTV –
GOTV CHANNEL 90 7PM, DSTV CHANNEL 256, STARTIMES CHANNEL 104 (7PM -8PM)
SUPER SCREEN TV Channel 175 UHF 45
Radio
SUPER FM 96.3 6PM
RAYPOWER 100.5 FM 7PM – 9PM
Global Day of Prayer with Pastor Chris

 
Share this on WhatsApp