Share this on WhatsAppBy Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
The Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, has disclosed that the University of Transportation, Daura, will be completed by September next year.
Amaechi made this disclosure today in Daura, Katsina State, when he embarked on maiden inspection tour of the ongoing project. 
This was contained in a press statement by Eric Ojiekwe, Director Press and Public Relations of the Ministry.The Transportation Minister, explained that the brain behind the $50 million university is to acquire technology needed to operate the railway system currently being built by China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) when the Chinese withdraw.
While fielding questions from Journalists, the Minister further informed that to complement the fact that the Chinese government is building the university free of charge, Technics Engineering Architectural Marketing (TEAM) has also promised to provide all the Consultancy needed for the project free of charge.
Though not in the original plan, the Minister directed the contractors to include the building of a primary and secondary school in the masterplan to cater schooling needs of the families who will be working there.
The Minister later paid courtesy call on the Executive Governor of Katsina State, His Excellency, Aminu Bello Masari, and the Emir of Daura, Umar Farouq Umar, where he appreciated the Katsina State government and the Daura Emirate for their benevolence in donating acres of land for the university to be built. 
 Responding, the Governor thanked the Minister for the enormous project which according to him portends limitless opportunities for his people and promised to provide security and support in whatever form to ensure the project becomes a reality.
In the same vein, Emir of Daura in his remark appreciated the Minister for his dedication and also pledged his support  for the realisation of this project. 
It will be recalled that the ground breaking ceremony for this project was performed by President Muhammadu on December 2, 2019.
Personalities on the  inspection tour included: the Board Chairman, NRC, Ibrahim Alhassan and other senior government officials.

				
				PV: 
				13
			Share this on WhatsApp