Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has acknowledged that leaders of various Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), Faith-based Organisations, and others,  in a massive show of support for the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, tuned up the party’s campaign a notch higher on Sunday by organising a mega summit in Benin City.
Chairman of the Edo State APC Media Campaign Council,  Prince John Mayaki, in a statement on Monday indicated that the summit, chaired by Professor Julius Ihonvbere, was attended by distinguished dignitaries, NGOs, CSOs and organs of the APC Campaign Council.
According to Mayaki, Professor Ihonvbere, at the Summit, said that the campaign was a season to reflect and focus on strategies for good governance, urging the campaign committee to put all hands on deck towards winning the September 19 election for the APC.
Meanwhile, a former member of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Rasaq Bello-Osagie, acknowledged that the committee is a ground-clearing for the APC gubernatorial candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, saying that the current government’s only programme is ‘memorandum of understanding’.
Bello-Osagie described Pastor Ize-Iyamu as a Man of God with vision and humility.
Mayaki observed that at the summit, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, listed the pressing challenges of Edo State as security; education: lack of teachers and poor infrastructure; and youth mass unemployment.
Ize-Iyamu, analysing his SIMPLE agenda, expressed dismay at the present government’s failure to create the 200,000 jobs it promised, reasoning that overall, the most pressing Edo crisis was bad leadership. The APC candidate insisted that beside the 200,000 jobs, the incumbent governor disappointed Edo people on many promises made in 2016.
Ize-Iyamu decried that the Edo State central hospital built by the Comrade Adams Oshiomole’s government, had been privatised by Governor Obaseki.
“That step,” Ize-Iyamu argued, “had nurtured an Edo apartheid system, of treating only rich patients and abandoning the poor ones; while the old hospital had been abandoned, and left in a dilapidated state with overgrown weeds.”
Furthermore, Nollywood star and lawmaker at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Olusola Desmond Elliot, at the APC ward rally in Anegbette, Etsako Central Local Government Area,  appealed to the people of Edo to vote for the APC candidate in the September 19 gubernatorial election. He assured Edo people that APC is a party which fulfilled its promises and that for the reconstruction of their road and other amenities, the party could be trusted to deliver. He added that the APC candidate has strong belief and faith in God and cannot compromise his divine mandate to serve humanity.
The Nollywood star expressed confidence that Edo State and the people would be better for it, if they vote massively for Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the APC candidate, as their governor on Saturday, September 19.
 

				
				PV: 
				10
			Share this on WhatsApp