Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Latest statistics shows that Nigeria ranks 14 on the list of failed states in the world. Nigeria only show better index over Yemen which tops the list, then, Somalia, South Sudan, Syria, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central African Republic, Chad, Sudan, Afghanistan, Zimbabwe, Cameroon, Burundi and Haiti.
The index shows that Nigeria falls into the category “alert” in between countries of “High Alert” and countries of “Strong warning”.
The index identified Finland as most sustainable stable country in the world, followed Norway, Switzerland, Denmark, Iceland, New Zealand, Canada, Luxemburg, Australia, etc.
The report shows a list of countries by order of appearance in the Fragile States Index (formerly referred to as Failed States Index) of the Think Tank Fund for Peace of the United States.
The report indicates that a fragile state has several attributes. Common indicators include a state whose central government is so weak or ineffective that it has little practical control over much of its territory; non-provision of public services; widespread corruption and criminality; refugees and involuntary movement of populations; and sharp economic decline.
It was highlighted that the report uses 12 factors to determine the rating for each nation, which include security threats, economic implosion, human rights violations, and refugee flows.
Indicators of a fragile state
According to the report, the following factors are used by Fund For Peace to ascertain the status of a country.
Social

Mounting demographic pressures and tribal, ethnic and/or religious conflicts.
Massive internal and external displacement of refugees, creating severe humanitarian emergencies.
Widespread vengeance-seeking group grievances.
Chronic and sustained human flight.

Economic

Widespread corruption
High economic inequality
Uneven economic development along group lines.
Severe economic decline.

Political

Delegitimization of the state.
Deterioration of public services.
Suspension or arbitrary application of law; widespread human rights abuses.
Security forces operating as a “state within a state” often with impunity.
Rise of factionalized elites.
Intervention of external political agents and foreign states.

Former President Olusegun Obasanjo had last week conveyed this message to Nigerians, warning President Muhammadu Buhari over the indices giving impetus to divisions in the country. The presidency found Obasanjo’s counseling offensive. Meanwhile, the latest ranking on failed states in the world proves Obasanjo right.
Share this on WhatsApp