Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Come September 19th, 2020, the people of Edo State will once again defy the elements and come out and congregate in 2,627 polling booths to choose who will govern them for the next four years.
14 political parties and their candidates made up of 12 males and 2 females are jostling for the Edo State apex job. Only few of them are truly in contention while others are just marking time on the ballot.
Here are the roll calls of all the candidates, both the contenders and the pretenders.
Godwin Obaseki:  He is from Benin City and the incumbent governor. He is an experienced stockbroker and economist. Although Obaseki came to office on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, he lost the battle for the party ticket in his second term voyage.
He has since defected to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to crystallize the ambition. He is standing as PDP candidate in the election.
Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu: He is the governor’s main challenger and candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC in the election. He was Chief of Staff to former Governor Lucky Igbinedion and once campaign Director General for the reelection of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole.
Iyamu’s grassroots appeal and federal connections are factors that give him favourable ratings in the poll.
Isaiah Osifo Uhun-Ekpenma: The former Chief of Staff to erstwhile Governor Oserhiemen Osunbor is the standard bearer for Labour Party LP. Although not favoured to win the race, he is strong enough to pose a threat to the front runners.
 
The Pretenders
 
The other candidates that can best be regarded as pretenders and their parties include Obhafuoso Paul will fly the flag of  Action Alliance, AA while  Akhigbe Ehiabhi will stand for the African Democratic Congress ADP in the election.
Similarly, Ibio Emmanuel is the candidate for Action Democratic Party ADP and Lucky Idehen is candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA.
Others are: Igbineweka Osamuede for Allied Peoples Movement APM; and Amos Osalumese Areloegbe for All Peoples Party APP
In the same vein, Agolebun Tracy, one of the two ladies in the race will stand in for the Nigerian People’s Party, NPP, while Stevie Ozono is for National Rescue Movement (NRM); Felix Obayagbon will contest on the platform of Social Democratic Party, SDP; Jones Osagiobare will run on the platform of the Young Progressive Party (YPP), while Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) would field Akhalamhe Amiemenoghena.
Share this on WhatsApp