Share this on WhatsApp
 


The security intelligence report of the Nigeria Customs on the presence of Boko Haram terrorists and plots to struck within the neighborhood of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) precipitated security tension in Abuja and the suburbs. The Nigerian military have, however, assured of being on red alert to protect the people.
The Coordinator of Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters, Abuja, Major General John Enenche, in a statement on Sunday indicated that the Defence Headquarters reassured residents of FCT and other adjoining States that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have been on red alert to combat crime and ensure effective surveillance of the Federal Capital Territory and other States of the country.
He explained that this is imperative sequel to a purported memorandum from the Nigeria Customs Service warning it’s staff on a possible attack on the FCT.
“The Armed Forces of Nigeria working together with other security and response agencies, particularly, the core intelligence agencies, hereby, assure the general public that preventive and preemptive intelligence are ongoing. The general public is thus advised to go about their lawful businesses undeterred,” Enenche declared.
The Defence Media Coordinator insisted: “the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies wish to assure the general public that the offensives against the common enemies of this Nation will not cease until normalcy is restored in all parts of the country.” He urged citizens to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity accordingly.
The Nigerian Customs Service had in  a report of Intelligence on National Security dated August 20, 2020, but signed on September 4, 2020, by H.A. Sabo, Deputy Comptroller General, in August, declared: “information reaching the Comptroller General of Customs (CGS), reveals the entrance of book Haram Terrorist Camps in and around the Federal Capital Territory.
“Further reports have it that they are planning to attack some selected targets within the territory.”
The report further indicated targets the Boko Haram terrorists are targeting to attack. They include Kunyan Bush along Airport Road, of DIA headquarters, Abuja; Robochi/Gwagwalada forest, Kwaku forest, Kuje; Unaisha forest in Toto Local Government, Nasarawa State; Gegu forest close to Idu town, and Kogi State.

				
				PV: 
				32
			Share this on WhatsApp