Share this on WhatsAppThe Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday accused former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of being behind the electoral violence in Edo State. The State party leadership, therefore,   requested the Nigeria Police to issue and execute a search warrant on Oshiomhole’s homes, alleging a stockpile of arms at the Iyamho country home and Benin City residence of the former APC national chairman.
The PDP State Publicity Secretary in Edo State, Chris Osa Nehikhare at  a press conference in Benin, raised alarm alleging that “credible reports” from Iyamho community in Etsako West Local Government Area disclosed purported movement of suspected thugs, arms and ammunitions into Oshiomhole’s residence.
Nehikhare expressed concerns that Edo South and Central senatorial districts have been relatively peaceful unlike Edo North senatorial district; he therefore, called on the police to caution Oshiomhole to comply with the  peace agreement at the Palace of the Oba of Benin. He demanded the Police to order the former APC national chairman to call his boys to order, end violence on the state and send back to Kogi the thugs he imported. The PDP State Publicity Secretary also stated that the former Edo governor should be made to stop using his house as a hideout for assassins and political thugs.
Nehikhare assured that the PDP and its candidate, incumbent Governor Obaseki, have been preaching peaceful co-existence and non-violence from the inchoate stage of the electioneering campaign for the September 19 election. He commended the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, for his intervention to prevail on politicians to eschew from political violence and maintain peace in the build up to the September 19 governorship election in the state.
Nehikhare declared: “As a political party we are very excited for the timely intervention of His Royal Majesty in the very embarrassing situation we find ourselves where shooting becomes the order of the day, especially, in Edo north senatorial district of Edo State where Adams Oshiomhole comes from.
“We, the PDP as a political party, are very proud of the Oba and we are very proud of the way he handled the situation. His Royal Majesty is truly a man of great wisdom and all Edo people should tap from his wisdom.
“In Benin custom where there is quarrel or disturbance in a home, the fathers call the most senior or the most responsible child or person and ask him why all these disturbances, the father usually knows who the trouble maker in the family is. The most senior and responsible child is instructed to Take Charge. That is what The Monarch did on Wednesday by asking His Excellency, The Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Phillip Shaibu to Take Charge.”
Nehikhare said that at no time did anyone, not the even Oba, say the police should suspend investigation of incidence of political violence in the state.   He said that the Benin paramount ruler rather condemned, declaring that  their activities brought shame and disgrace to Edo State.
Nehikhare accordingly declared: “Governor Godwin Obaseki, Chief Security Officer of the State, in collaboration with the Commissioner of Police and all the relevant security agencies will continue to investigate all known cases of breach of peace, attempts to assassinate, cause bodily harms, injure, shooting to destroy and damage property of Edo citizens and residents, no matter the party he or she belongs.
“And this is just the right way to go so that if anybody is indicted, prosecuted and jailed, it will send serious message to all those who think election time is free for all to become recalcitrant and cause nuisance to themselves and the society.
“We are encouraging the police to carry on their investigation, and anybody found wanting, anybody involved, the police should prosecute the person and let it be a deterrent to other trouble makers across the state.”

				
				PV: 
				12
			Share this on WhatsApp