Share this on WhatsAppBy Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
The armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have continued their major operations across the country with attendant successes. The various operations have progressed satisfactorily in all the theatres. This was stated by Major John Enenche, Coordinator, Defence Media Operations while given weekly update on the various Operations which covers the month of August 2020. 
According to Enenche, in the North-West zone, troops of Operation Harandaji have continued to record significant successes against the Armed bandits in the North-west zone of the country. For the month of August 2020, troops have continued to exhibit continued resilience in the fight against armed banditry, cattle rustling and other sundry crimes in the zone. In one of the feat recorded, troops of Operation SAHEL SANITY deployed at Daki Takwas on 20 August 2020 conducted a snap roadblock and intercepted a Toyota Corolla car with Registration number DAL 41 MT. 
After a diligent search on the vehicle, troops discovered 11 locally made rifles and 150 live cartridges concealed in different parts of the vehicle. Preliminary investigation revealed that the dangerous cargo was heading to Kofar Dinya in Bukkuyum LGA of Zamfara state. 
A total of 5 men were arrested in connection to the illegal fire arms. Also, a repentant bandit leader named Bornon Kejo willingly surrendered to troops and submitted 2 AK-47 rifles and 2 AK-47 rifle magazines at Zurmi LGA of Zamfara state. Efforts are ongoing to recover more weapons as well as encourage others to surrender and embrace peace. 
The Defence Media Operations Coordinator also revealed that troops on 23 August 2020 conducted a well coordinated intelligence based operation leading to the raid of an illegal mining site located along Gadan Zaima-Zuru road in Bukkuyum LGA of Zamfara state while attempting to attack innocent residents. During the encounter, one of the bandits was neutralized while others escaped. Troops recovered one AK-47 rifle, one AK-47 magazine loaded with 5 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition and two motorcycles from the fleeing bandits. In the North-East zone, Operation LAFIYA DOLE conducted several clearance Operations to comprehensive precision air strikes and air interdiction including artillery and aerial bombardment on terrorists enclaves. 
According to Enenche, these operations conducted, recorded attendant successes with scores of the terrorists’ leaders and fighters neutralized and their structures destroyed. In the North-Central zone, Operations SAFE HAVEN, THUNDER STRIKE, WHIRL PUNCH and WHIRL STROKE conducted several ambushes, raids and clearance patrols at various locations in the zone which resulted in appreciable successes within the period under review. 
The Coordinator of DMO further noted that these ongoing kinetic efforts are being supported by non-kinetic operations in the form of Civil Military Cooperation (CMIC) activities, reconciliations and conciliation efforts in the form of stakeholders meeting amongst the various ethnic groups in the zone, amongst others. In the South-West zone, troops of Operation AWATSE have continued to intensify the fight against pipeline vandals, economic saboteurs and other criminal elements. In one of the Operation conducted, the gallant troops impound a wooden boat with 45 Jerry cans of 25 litres, one 2.2 inches capacity hose of about 300 meter length used in siphoning Petroleum products at Ibeshe area. 
Troops also arrested a suspect in possession of some jerrycans of product suspected to be premium motor spirit (pms) at Abule glass. Also, between 21 and 23 August 2020, Nigerian Navy ship BEECROFT patrol team raided the criminal enclave at Corner Loss, Ilado, Akaraba, Inagbe, Ikate idi mango, Abule Glass, Abule Alfa, Ilashe and the sea side of Ikare. In the South-South zone, troops of operation DELTA SAFE have sustained the aggressive fight against economic sabotage in the zone with tremendous successes. For the month of August, subsidiary operation SILENT HEAT was launched by operation DELTA SAFE on 1 August 2020 for 90 days. 
The objectives of the Operation was to protect critical installations, key points and vital points as well as combat all forms of illegalities/crimes in the area. The Operation is conducted in order to maintain conducive environment for oil and gas industries as well as other economic activities to thrive.

				
				PV: 
				17
			Share this on WhatsApp