Share this on WhatsApp
 


The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has cautioned that “his antics are desperate, cumbersome to the judiciary and fraught with lies” cannot work for incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19, 2020 governorship election in the state.
Chairman of the Edo State Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, in a statement on Tuesday, September 8, 2020, condemned the governor for alleged troubling of the security agencies, the courts and having no regard for people’s children.
Mayaki in the statement declared: “Now, Obaseki on Monday visited the Inspector General of Police at the Force Headquarters in Abuja where he expressed worry about the security of voters in the state whereas, Obaseki is the chief sponsor of violent activities in the state with thugs quartered in Government House.”
He alleged: “It was Obaseki who went to court to obtain an order restraining the police from arresting former Speaker, Kabiru Adjoto, and Osaigbovo Iyoha, among others who were named as sponsors of the 7 thugs arrested with firearms at the premises of the State House of Assembly – thugs working under the orders and instructions of Godwin Obaseki were arrested for brewing trouble at the State Assembly; this same Adjoto has been deployed to harry and importune the judiciary into bailing them out.
“Obaseki’s thugs shot themselves in Igueben, the report is still fresh and before the police. Another was reportedly arrested on Sunday in Jattu; Philip Shaibu’s community. “Just yesterday, one Odimientimi Osiya (aka Osuo) a notorious kidnapper and armed robber known to have been terrorizing Edo, Ondo, Ogun and Lagos states was arrested and coincidentally, he’s a Senior Special Assistant to Governor Obaseki on security with arrangements concluded on how he would attack APC members in Siluko ward, Ovia south West Local Government Area. Serially too, Obaseki’s thugs destroys our campaign materials, he had his paid agents in Esan beat up and torture our party members who were innocently pasting posters. People’s children?”
Mayaki further said: “Obaseki says there is no opposition and he will hand over if he loses in a fair contest. The problem is that we do not trust his sense of judgement. The only thing he will regard as a fair contest is one where he wins, and he does not mind assassinating the whole state and importing foreigners to live in Edo. That has always been his style.”
Mayaki expressed why the governor had given up campaigning, as well as could not answer why he was incurring debts of over $75 million for the state, and what he was doing in Abuja.
“I’ll tell you what he was doing. We raised an alarm that the governor was taking loans in Edo name and looting money to fund his campaign. He is not campaigning to Edo people. Ask those in the state, he stopped that over a week ago. He is securing the means to orchestrate anarchy right now. The Oba fingered his deputy, Philip Shaibu, as arming thugs who also didn’t deny complacency but the Governor is in Abuja complaining about security – who is he deceiving,” Mayaki said.
The PDP had on the other divide, accused Captain Hosa Okunbo of partnering with 3,000 militants in the Niger Delta, alleging he wants to deploy them to disrupt the Edo election. the party had earlier alleged that Captain Hosa is sponsoring the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, targeting the Edo treasury.


				
				PV: 
				14
			Share this on WhatsApp