Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has challenged incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), that he must not run away from Channels Television gubernatorial debate; noting that the governor had shown a penchant for giving flimsy excuses for non-appearance in debates.
Chairman of the Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, in a statement on Thursday, promised the governor to expect erudite debate from Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, APC governorship candidate.
Mayaki declared: “Anyone that can prevail on Mr. Governor to be present at the Channels debate should do so, so that he can rescue some of his chances of victory at the polls. His absence from two debates already has put people on edge. Why is he shying away from answering questions if he knows that he has truly done enough to warrant re-election?
“As for the APC, do not worry, all your questions will be answered by the erudite and sagacious politician, who is most fit and proper to be Governor of Edo State come November 12, 2020.
“If he runs from the Channels debate, Edo people will make up their minds on him as an unserious fellow, who was never prepared for governance. There is enough time for him to arrange all his schedules, so no excuse of ‘I have to meet up with another appointment’ will come up, just as in the BBC experience or the earlier one organised by the Nigeria Elections Debate Group in which the Governor claimed he never got invite for participation.”
Mayaki was of the view that debates constitute very important part of free and fair democratic election. he said that advanced countries of the western world adopted debates because it allowed people to have a glimpse of how brilliant and purposeful the different candidates can be when faced with each other’s ideas.
According the APC Campaign Council Media Chairman, “If you wanted to buy a product, would you not like to compare the specifications of all the available options.”
 
 

				
				PV: 
				13
			Share this on WhatsApp