Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Senator Ishaku Abbo, representing Adamawa North in the Nigerian National Assembly, has taken up the duty to account for the over N220 million constituency projects budget he administered in his senatorial district.
Senator Ishaku Abbo on his social media official handles Senator Ishaku Abbo – SIA, on Thursday, disclosed locations of the year 2019 constituency projects in his senatorial district to dispel false information by an online publication.
Senator Abbo acknowledged that “the budget of the year 2019 was already passed into law and the following projects were captured in the budgets as Zonal Intervention Projects (Constituency Projects)”.
Abbo, therefore, identified the projects, it’s content and location in the Adamawa Northern Senatorial District. These include the following:
Construction of Block of classrooms and Motorized Boreholes in:

Madagali – Government Day Secondary School Gulak and Junior Day Secondary school Madagali.
Michika – Government Day secondary School Bazza and Junior day secondary school Michika Central.
Mubi North – Government Day Secondary School Mayobani
Mubi South – Government Junior Secondary school Muda and Junior Girls secondary school Nasarawo.
Maiha – Government Secondary School Maksha, in Mayo Nguli and Junior secondary school Vokuna, Pakka.

Abbo revealed: “The Total amount captured as my constituency projects in 2019 was N220 million and the money was domiciled in UBEC under the Ministry of Education.”
He identified “the Projects executed under the 2019 ZIP”, noting that the “2020 ZIP is yet to start as Procurement is still in process”.
The Senator stated, “Even though the duty of a legislator is to make laws for the land and ensure compliance with our constitution, I am glad to say that I in Collaboration with my colleagues have attracted major projects to Adamawa state in this 2020.”
Senator Abbo also disclosed: “Other Projects sponsored from my pocket is the next to be posted here as demanded by SIA MOVEMENT”.

				
				PV: 
				10
			Share this on WhatsApp