Share this on WhatsApp
The Rector of the Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu, Mr. Olumide Olusola Metilelu has said that the institution is ready for resumption after a long break caused by the outbreak of the dreaded COVID-19 Pandemic.

Metilelu, who was addressing members of the Education Committee of the State House of Assembly led by its Chairman, Hon. Yinka Ogundimu, on Wednesday, 9th September, 2020 said that the school has provided booth sanitizers at all the entrances of the polytechnic.

The Rector said that there were provisions for wash hand basins and sanitizers at the schools primary school and across the institution, and at the entrances of the classrooms.

“Our Centre For Entrepreneurship has produced nose masks and sanitizers for all the staff and the students.

“We will also do awareness campaigns in the community, while the buses plying the school have been told to reduce their number of passengers. We have also told the food vendors that their food should be take away.

“We have also reduced the number of students on each seat in the classes, it is now three students instead of five in a bench,” he said.

He said further that a class that could accommodate 60 students had been reduced to more than half and that the new arrangement is to provide one hour of physical lectures and one hour of virtual lectures.

“Our resumption will be staggered and the HND students will resume first. They will be receiving lectures on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while the ND1 students would resume two weeks later and ND 2 would resume three weeks after to complete their exams,” he said.

In his comments, Hon. Yinka Ogundimu said that it was important to prevent COVID-19 and other diseases regularly, adding that another epidemic could come anytime.

Ogundimu urged the Rector to increase the wash hand basins at the gate and create more awareness on the pandemic.

“People at the front desk should tell whoever is coming in to wash their hands with soaps. We will want to see samples of the masks, sanitizers and other items produced for the community.

“We want to ensure that you have done what you told us. We have inspected the healthcare facilities and we are pleased with what we saw, but the management has to come up with more plans.

“We are particular about healthcare within the campus and we want the school authority to pay premium on this.

“We want the school to widen their scope based on their population. The lives of the students and the staff are important to us,” he said.

The Committee members were taken round the school premises by the Rector to see the facilities on ground for the students to resume normal lectures.

Other lawmakers on the trip included Hon. Bisi Yusuff (Alimosho 1), Hon. Abdulsobur Olayiwola (Mushin 2), and Hon. Setonji David (Badagry 2).

				
				PV: 
				17
			Share this on WhatsApp