Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State on Saturday warned of fake INEC websites sponsored by the PDP to win an advantage in the ongoing election in the state.
The party in a statement by the Chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, indicated that it laughed at the speculative results by the PDP where they churned out fake figures in pretence that it has already secured majority votes.
The APC said that PDP’s “electoral vaudeville” will not secure them the elections.
Mayaki noted that the figures and images being bandied in the media were falsities that should be regarded without any seriousness.
“Before the election, we warned that PDP has prepared doctored election results and fake figures to make it appear that they will win the elections. They have even graduated to hosting a fake website for INEC where the release their concocted results.
“I want to urge all APC supporters in Edo to remain calm as we had majority of the votes in the state cast in our favour. A falling tree makes a louder crack than an erect tree.
“PDP has been churning out false figures. They released an edited picture, for instance, of Comrade Oshiomhole voting for PDP. They released news that PDP won in our candidate’s polling unit. These are all falsehood. We will not stoop to their level,” Mayaki declared.
He added that the false information being propagated on the media would not change the actual results in the ballot boxes and that they were all attempts by the PDP to “secure false evidence for the election tribunal, which they still plan to head to after they have lost.
“Just like their candidate, Obaseki, PDP is trying to push a narrative that they have secured the majority votes and that if APC is declared the winner, then, something funny has happened. “The only funny thing that has happened is that PDP thugs tried to chase APC polling agents away from the spots of the elections. They managed to beat up APC election officials and in Ovia North East, they managed to kill one person, seriously maim another, and injure several others. Despite this attempt to prevent our people from voting, we have still been able to secure majority of the votes,” he said.
Mayaki, therefore, expressed confidence that when the final results are revealed, the truth would come out and the mandate to move Edo State forward would be handed to APC, as the state had collectively rejected the governor.
Meanwhile, the results of the Edo governorship election were picked raw as announced at the various polling units by media representatives who monitored the election in the state. Voters also captured the raw figures being announced at the polling units by the INEC  staff. The social media only speed up the process of spreading the information. It would appear the social media may be making it difficult to manipulate the result, thus, it would appear there is no hiding place for election riggers.
Share this on WhatsApp