Share this on WhatsApp
The operatives of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps in Miga, Jigawa state have arrested 40-year-old Usman Sama’ila for the alleged murder of his seventeen (17) month old stepson, Adamu Gambo.

A statement released by the spokesperson of the Jigawa command of NSCDC, SC Adamu Shehu, said the suspect allegedly took his stepson to a farm where he strangled him until he eventually died.

Shehu said the suspect tried to cover up his heinous crime but it was discovered and reported to the command by his second wife, Bahayura. Bahayura had married Gambo, the father of deceased ( Adamu) and later married the suspect after the termination of her first marriage.

”The incident occured on 14th August, 2020, when the suspect was alleged to have taken his Seventeen (17) month old stepson, Adamu Gambo, to a farm and strangled him which eventually led to his death. The suspect tried to cover his heinous act by relating the child’s death to cold-related infections, but his wife suspected foul play. According to her, her husband (Sama’ila) attempted to strangle the poor child about two times, of which the second attempt was in her presence, due to the intense dislike of the child, but was not successful.” Shehu said

The NSCDC spokesperson said after thorough interrogation by the Intelligence and Investigation team of the Command, Sama’ila confessed to having committed the crime, saying that the Baby was a distraction and interference to his love life. The suspect said he wants his wife to give him all her love and attention.

Shehu said the suspect did not show any trace of mental health but he will be taken to a psychiatric hospital for a proper mental evaluation.

”Preliminary medical examination on the suspect’s mental condition reveals no trace of mental disorder, however, he will be taken to a Psychiatric Hospital in Kazaure, Jigawa State to properly ascertain his mental status before being charged to a court of competent jurisdiction.” Shehu said

				
				PV: 
				7
			Share this on WhatsApp