Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The National Chairman of the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP, Olusegun Bamgbose, on Saturday alleged that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bola Tinubu and the former National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole are already perfecting plans to win the governorship election in Edo and Ondo states by all cost.
According to the NNPP chieftain, Tinubu, will want to impress President Muhammadu Buhari and the party, by delivering Ondo in view of his perceived Presidential ambition.
In the case of Edo State, Bamgbose noted that a former National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole will equally flex his muscle to prove to the party that he is still a force to reckon with.
“He will want to tell Governor Obaseki that his godfatherism has not expired. The bottom line of this analysis is that the possibility of free and fair elections in Ondo and Edo Governorship elections may be very slim,” he said.
He also warned the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, against being used by the APC to influence the forthcoming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States.
“We have reasons to believe that the pressure is being mounted on INEC to be part of the winning strategy. They are not leaving any stone unturned, to win the election through any means possible. Democracy has come to stay. INEC should avoid being tagged as, Enemy of Democracy, EOD. They should not allow APC to circumvent democracy.
“We are not ruling out financial inducements by APC, in order for the elections to favour them, but INEC should be informed that Nigerians are watching with keen interest, whether INEC will dance to the tune of the ruling party.
“They are interested in clinching to power for their selfish aims, not really to alleviate the sufferings of the poor masses. Nigerians should reject them and embrace NNPP. APC has lost focus and forthrightness. Our party remains the hope of a better nation and better future,” he said.

				
				PV: 
				24
			Share this on WhatsApp