Share this on WhatsApp 
As preparations are on top gear for the celebration of Nigeria’s 60th Independence Anniversary, the Federal Government has thrown a challenge to the creative industry to produce a brand for the celebration.
The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami who announced this in a statement, said the government wants to use the opportunity to celebrate the strength of the country as an indivisible entity.
Dr. Pantami who personally signed the statement noted that the thematic and creative aspects of the anniversary would be designed by Nigerians for Nigeria, adding that the theme of the celebration would be “Together at 60 “.
The Minister said “On the 1st of October, 2020, Nigeria will be celebrating its Diamond Jubilee as it turns 60 years. It is a day that reminds every citizen about the dawn of the nation we call our country, a diverse nation with resilient and hardworking people. Nigerians have gone far and wide, impacting their communities and the world at large.
“To celebrate Nigeria’s Diamond Jubilee, the Federal Government of Nigeria, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR has approved an inclusive National Independence Celebration program in line with Covid-19 protocols and guidelines.
“As the saying goes, we are only as strong as we are united, as weak as we are divided. The Federal Government, therefore, wants to use this opportunity to celebrate our strength as one indivisible country.
“Also provide an opportunity for Nigerians to choose their brand and harness the power of our creative minds to create other elements that will form the Brand of the Anniversary. The Sub Committee of the Interministerial Committee came up with a challenge in which they are looking for talented, critical thinking and creative individuals or teams to produce the slogan, photograph, and a poem for Nigerians to mark the country’s 60th Anniversary, from 1st October 2020 to 30th December 2021.
“To vote for the best brand and participate in the challenge, visit the challenge portal: https://nigeriaAt60.gov.ng. The best brand and concept will be presented to His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, and will be used in celebrating Nigeria’s 60th Anniversary. The winners will also receive prizes, in addition to being part of this epoch-making event.
“As the country eagerly awaits the unveiling of the winning brand and other elements of the celebration, we look forward to the active participation of all”.

				
				PV: 
				9
			Share this on WhatsApp