Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A civil society, Citizen Action for Good Governance (CAGG) has berated former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his recent utterances against the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The group also described as unfortunate and disheartening the endorsement of Obasanjo’s outburst by the Nobel Laureate, Professor Woke Soyinka, alleging that his condemnable statement was inciting and capable of causing chaos and lawlessness.
Addressing newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the National Coordinator of the group, Nazir Galadanchi said both Obasanjo and Soyinka were playing to the gallery when the duo as elder statesmen can adopt a more decent way rather than throwing decency and civility to the dogs.
The CAGG boss said his group was disturbed and disappointed by Obasanjo’s utterances and scheming against the present administration, accusing him of a legion of misdeeds and atrocities while he was in power.
“We want to state unequivocally that Obasanjo has injured the unity of Nigeria, run down the economy, which worsened the economic situation of Nigeria and Nigerians and that led to myriad of problems and his cronies massively and terribly looted and ruined the economy before that created unprecedented poverty in the country.
“How can Obasanjo say Nigeria is more divided than ever? He has been the god-father who did not mean well for the progress of the country based on his king-making role that gave Nigerians leaders who were not ready for leadership because he wants to control the affairs of Nigeria from his sitting room.”
On Professor Soyinka, the group said, “it is also unfortunate and disheartening to hear from the respected Nobel Laureate, Prof. Woke Soyinka, and making statements in support of Obasanjo that Nigeria is near extinction.
“We want to mention here that Soyinka is supposed not to make unfounded statements that are unpopular. Nigeria is not in the state of disarray nor extinction as he claimed because the Buhari-led administration has done what other administrations could not do for the past 21 years of democracy in Nigeria.”
The group then called on all well-meaning Nigerians to team up and complement the government’s efforts rather than heating up the polity with utterances.
Share this on WhatsApp