Share this on WhatsApp






 


 
The Saturday governorship election in Edo State won by incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was phenomenal in the political development of the state.
Several political appointees in the state, perhaps, misreading the power configuration between the governor, the PDP, and former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the party’s governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, took decisions that could boomerang after the elections. The political appointees resigned from various departments and agencies of the state, dumped Obaseki and the PDP to re-align with Oshiomhole in the APC.
It would appear that the defectors may have miscalculated the power configuration and the populist sentiments in Edo State while resigning from the Obaseki administration in the midst of the electioneering campaign. There were allegations that most of them were bought over either financially or with promise of new appointments on the opposing camp.
Unfortunately, the table turned against their political principal, loss appears irredeemable.
Meanwhile, the people of Edo State has continued to celebrate the dismantling of the godfather in the state. They have sent out strong message that non one can play God.
The list of state actors who abandoned Obaseki at the critical time to align with Oshiomhole include the following:
Taiwo Akerele – Chief of Staff
John Mayaki – Chief Press Secretary
Paul Ohonbamu – Commissioner
Omua Oni-Okpako – Commissioner
Monday Ogiegor – MD EDSTMA
Christopher Adesotu – Chairman, Vocational and Technical Education Board
Gabriel Oiboh – Chairman, Post Primary Education Board
Osanyemwere Osawe – Member, Post Primary Education Board
Fulani Yakubu Ekpeyoung – SSA
Adeyanju Noah – SSA
Cordelia M. Iyogun – SSA
James Osheku – SSA
Louis Osamuyi Osayande – SSA
Ernest Unuaghon imina – SSA
Prince Lucky Igbinedion – SSA
Chris Oseiwe Oribhabor – SSA
Solomon Okoduwa – SSA
Kennedy Itepu – SSA
Sabbath Egbeyon – SSA
Emike Obazee – SA
Goodluck A. Uyigue – SA
Razaq Rotimi – SA
Olajide Victor Oloruyomi – SA
Smart Bank – SA
Bright Njor – SA
Kingsley Ekueme – SA
Joshua Akhabue – SA
Oladele Ayotope Josiah – SA
Boyi Magdalene – SA
Osarobo Osaro Anthony – SA
Aibangbee Chico – SA
Obayagbona Augustine – SA
Osamwonyi Atu – EDSOGPADEC
Emmanuel Odigie – EDSOGPADEC
Rilwanu Oshiomhole – EDSOGPADEC
Okondoh Patrick Iyoha – OSM Director
Maureen Osaro Ekhoragbon – Vice-Chairman, Ovia North-East
Aghedo Oscar – Secretary, Ovia North-East
Kehinde Garrick Osemwingie – Secretary, Uhumwonde LGC
Otaniyen Igbinosa – Orhiomwon Council Supervisor
Martins Ozakpolor – Orhiomwon Council Supervisor
Vincent Ehibor – Orhiomwon Council Supervisor
















Share this on WhatsApp