Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has lamented that the defeat of the APC in the governorship election in Edo State. The party stakeholder blamed the ousted APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, for the defeat of the party’s candidate by Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze in a statement decried that the unpleasant carriage and incoherent disposition of the ousted APC National Chairman, Oshiomhole, singly cost the party the election.
Eze lamented that it is heart-rending to learn that Edo State has been added to the league of States like Zamafara, Rivers, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Sokoto, Adamawa, and Oyo States where sheer administrative incompetence and gross leadership malady occasioned by the self-styled and kooky steering model of Adams Oshiomhole scuttled the electoral chances of the All Progressives Congress and deprived the majority from having their way.
“With the development in Edo,” Eze said, “it is only fair to settle that Oshiomhole’s membership of the APC is a curse which has brought brutal misfortune and severe affliction on the party.”
The APC stakeholder protested that the gains and achievements recorded by the party under the sterling leadership of Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, former National Chairman, have been swept away by the dangerous flood of unending catastrophe which has overwhelmed the party as a result of Oshiomhole’s disastrous and poor approach to leadership and party politics. He stated that Oshiomhole must formally apologise to  President Muhammadu Buhari and APC members for the serial embarrassments and heavy damages occasioned by his hinky and very quirky carriage.
Eze congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki and commended the people of Edo State for striving to extinguish godfatherism in their domain. He added that they embarked on the journey of consolidating the gains and achievements recorded in the last four years under the APC administration in the State.
He appealed to Obaseki to forgive Oshiomhole and all those who helped him cause havoc in the APC, urging the Edo Governor to consider returning to APC and take back his position in the progressives family.  He assured Obaseki that his place in the APC is still very much reserved and intact.
Eze counseled the APC candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, to prevail on Oshiomhole to offset all his electoral expenses, noting that it was his damaging campaign against him as well as his poor leadership that caused him and the APC the election.
Eze joined President Buhari in commending INEC and security agencies for the high degree of competence and professionalism in supervising the election which translated into a peaceful and successful electoral process.
Share this on WhatsApp