Share this on WhatsApp
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday cautioned the All Progressives Congress (APC) against continuous attacks on its members and supporters by thugs of the opposition party in Edo State.
The PDP in a statement on Tuesday by the State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, expressed concerns that
these attacks are becoming rampant and repugnant, especially, as we continue to preach peace, preach against reprisals and encourage non-violence as the campaigns continue.”
The PDP State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, narrated that on Sunday, August 30, 2020 armed men invaded the home of Hon Paul Frank Aronokhale, Secretary to Estako East Local Government Council. He said that the gateman was beaten mercilessly while the armed men rained bullets on the building and cars parked in the compound. “For over 20 minutes, they kept on shooting and spraying the property with bullets from an assortment of sophisticated weapons in their possession.
“This is the second time in a month that there has been an attempt on the life of the SLG by the same hoodlums suspected to be APC thugs,” Nehikhare declared.
The State Publicity Secretary further narrated:  “in our usual tradition, we do not run to the press when there is this type of security breach and threat to life and property of our members and supporters until the matter is reported to the police and investigation has reached an advanced stage.
“Contrary to the tales APC and its propaganda machinery are narrating,  Engineer Abdul Ganiyu was arrested by soldiers on the Okpella-Okene expressway as he attempted to flee Okpella after he refused police invitation and refused to admit police into his residence when the DPO and his team visited him as a person of interest in the investigation after he was identified as one of those in the Sienna vehicle that invaded the residence of the SLG.
“We are informed that the soldiers picked him and some of his goons and not family members at the military checkpoint at the Edo-Kogi state boundary just a few hours after he denied the police entry into his house by barricading himself in. The dutiful soldiers handed him over to the police. His goons were released as there was nothing incriminating found on them at that material time.”
The PDP, therefore, commended the security agencies and, especially, the police for their swift action. The PDP noted that however, Engr Gani’s accomplices are still roaming the street and are still a threat to not just PDP members but Edo indigenes.
“We are informed by the victims and eye-witnesses that many of the gun men were identified and the location of the vehicle used for the dastardly act have been passed to the police.
“Bringing Engr, Gani to Benin is not enough, he should be promptly charged to court along with the other two assassins that were arrested in connection with the Agbede attack,” PDP protested.
The party further advised APC and its leadership to join in the condemnation of these acts of thuggery and violence. It further urged the APC to show respect to the law and stop blackmailing the law enforcement agencies and making unnecessary demands that smacks of political arrogance.
Nehikhare noted that the statement by John Mayaki, Chairman of the APC media campaign council is to say the least unfortunate. He maintained that the behavior of its members is reprehensible and should be condemned.
“Once again, we implore our members and supporters to remain focused, calm, patient and be ready to Vote massively for PDP and Governor Obaseki on September 19, 2020 PDP State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa,” Nehikhare declared.



				
				PV: 
				11
			Share this on WhatsApp