Share this on WhatsApp 
The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 Edo election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has continued to widen his consultations with traditional rulers as he deepens APC’s grassroots campaign in the state. Ize-Iyamu is reinforced by former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and other party leaders.  Assessing the success of the APC grassroots campaign, Chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee of the party’s Campaign Council, John Mayaki, in a statement indicated that the APC candidate and the running mate are being conferred title by sone traditional institutions in the state.
Mayaki disclosed that Ize-Iyamu was conferred another honorary title – Okhumaivior of the South East Uneme Clan in Etsako East Local Government Council, Edo State.
The honorary title was said to be conferred on him by the Oliola of Uneme-Uzanu and the head of the South East Uneme clan, Benjamin Ikani, in recognition of his contributions and demonstration of support in his bid to emerge as the next Governor of Edo State.
Mayaki added that the running mate, Mallam Gani Audu, and former Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, were also recipients of honorary titles when the APC ward-to-ward campaign team visited the Uzanu palace last Saturday for royal blessings.
He said the traditional ruler offered his blessings to Pastor Ize-Iyamu and the APC; thereafter, he appealed for the creation of a political ward in the clan for effective representation, as well as  the deployment of teachers to government-owned schools in the area to improve learning if the APC candidate wins the September 19 election.
According to Mayaki, Ize-Iyamu restated his commitment to ensuring inclusive governance and the development of all parts of the state. He also promised to raise the standard of education in the state and address the challenge of teacher shortage with new recruitment.
Mayaki disclosed that Ize-Iyamu had earlier visited the Ogie Eppa of Weppa clan, His Royal Highness Moses Akpamuka Etsu, where he sought and received his blessings and prayers.
The APC candidate assured the traditional ruler and the residents of the community that his administration will ensure the immediate installation of functional transformer for stable power supply and provide quality roads to complement its other farmer support programs for easy access to markets.
Mayaki added that Oshiomhole, at the palace explained that the choice of Ize-Iyamu as APC candidate was informed by his track record of responsible and accountable leadership, and the readiness to serve the people of Edo State.
Oshiomhole had chided incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki for betraying the trust of the people by refusing to continue with the achievements of the previous administration as promised.

				
				PV: 
				15
			Share this on WhatsApp