Share this on WhatsAppActor, Sylvester Stallone’s mother and Celebrity Big Brother star, Jackie Stallone, has passed away at the age of 98.

Frank Stallone, the younger brother to Sylvester, made the announcement on Monday night, saying his mother had died that morning.

In a post shared to Instagram, Frank stated that Jackie ‘died in her sleep as she had wished.’

He wrote: “This morning my brothers and I lost our mother Jackie Stallone. She was the mother to four children, Tommy, Sylvester, Frankie, and my late sister Toni Ann.

“She was a remarkable woman working out every day full of spunk and fearless. She died in her sleep as she had wished. It was hard not to like her, she was very eccentric and flamboyant person. She was born on November 29th 1921 in Washington DC, she lived through prohibition, the depression, and World War II.”

“I would talk to her for hours about the ’20s ’30s and ’40s. It was a history lesson. Her mind was as sharp as a razor till the day she died. She never wore a mask a true revolutionary gal. I guess I’m drowning my emotions in tears and too much vino. But when you’ve known someone for 70 yrs it tough and sad. She had seven grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.”

“My brother Sylvester took care of her like a Queen for all of her life. I will never be able to call my mom again or have her yell at me why I never got married. But we all loved her and her spirit to survive and prevail. I’ll miss you always mommy.”

Jackie Stallone became well-known in the 1990s for publishing a series of astrology books. She also appeared in the 1980s wrestling program “G.L.O.W.: Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling,” and had a brief stint in the Celebrity Big Brother house in the UK in 2005,

She was married three times and had three sons and a daughter.

She shares Sylvester and Frank with late ex-husband Frank Stallone Sr. She is also mother to late actress Toni D’Alto, who passed away in 2012 at the age of 48 after a lengthy cancer battle. She shared Toni with ex-husband Anthony Filiti.

Jackie also leaves behind her husband of over two-decades, Stephen Marcus Levine.
Share this on WhatsApp