Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU) has accused Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State of scuttling the peace process in the troubled zone, insinuating that the governor does not seem to be prepared for peace.
The Public Relations Officer of the Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU), Luka Binniyat, acknowledged the recent Peace Summit organized by the Nigeria Christians Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), saying that Southern Kaduna leaders are always interested to participate in genuine peace process in the state. He, however, agitated that until the Governor El-Rufai apologises to the Southern Kaduna people and elders over his derogatory comments against them, the peace process of the state government is considered a ruse.
Binniyat argued that Governor El-Rufai merely  conceived the peace summit as a face-saving measure, complaining that the governor only considered it after he had insulted the leaders and openly declared support for the Fulani herdsmen, killing people in Southern Kaduna.
Binniyat decried that the rate of killings in Southern Kaduna under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari is unusual, noting that more rural communities are invaded and occupied by the Fulani militia, displacing owners of the land.
SOKAPU lamented that attacks have been targeted at Christian communities since 2015, adding that President Buhari and Governor El-Rufai are not telling the world the truth. The Union protested that both the federal and Kaduna State governments merely was to save their faces with the peace initiative to cover up intense criticism over the genocide and arson in Southern Kaduna.
SOKAPU argued that in genuine peace process, the organizers should invite those directly affected by the crisis and the perpetrators of the violence for discussion to agree to genuine peace accord.
“So, there is the need to know them. They are inviting communities as observers. That is not how to bring about enduring peace. If you are talking about a genuine peace process, you must bring the victims and those who perpetrated the atrocities together. How can there be peace if the more than 50,000 people displaced cannot go back to their homes and communities. How can there be peace if the invaders are still occupying the communities,” SOKAPU declared.

				
				PV: 
				8
			Share this on WhatsApp