Share this on WhatsApp
 


Members of the militia group in Benue State led by Terwase Akwaza, popularly called Gana, may have commenced retaliatory killings in seeming revolt of the murder of their leader by the Nigerian Army.  A source from Benue told National Daily on Thursday that Gana boys allegedly killed one of the chiefs who was part of the amnesty negotiation team that persuaded Terwase Akwaza to surrender and accept amnesty. The boys were said to have vowed to come back for the children of the chief and others who were involved in the negotiation and persuasion of their leader to ceasefire for amnesty which turned a betrayal to be killed.
Our source said that the chiefs of Sankera, Gana’s community, were involved in the negotiation in the interest of peace to be restored in the state but unknown to them there was an alleged grand plot to eliminate Gana. it would appear that the lives of their lives are in danger.
 
Brigadier General Maude Ali Gadzama, Commander of the Four Special Forces Command, Doma Local Government Area, had on Tuesday disclosed the killing of Terwase Akwaza, known as Gana. The Commander had said that Gana was killed on Tuesday evening in a gun battle with the military.
Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, however, countered the military, alleging that the Army intercepted and snatched Gana from a government convoy of repentant militants in Gboko.
Our source from Benue added that Gana and his boys had heeded to pleas for ceasefire and acceptance of amnesty which led to their surrender. The source said that they had met with Tor Sankera, the paramount ruler of the community as well as chiefs, youths, and priests.
The source narrated that Gana was in the same car with the Chairman of Katsina-Ala Local Government and a priest, Bishop Anenya. Terwase Akwaza, Gana, was said to be sitting between the chairman and the Catholic priest while a police officer was sitting in front of the car on their way to Makurdi for the amnesty.
The convoy was said to be intercepted by the Army at Masaje near Yandev in Gboko, who searched for Gana. On identifying Gana, the Army were alleged to have ordered the LG Chairman, the Bishop, and the police escort out of the car; then, allegedly drove Gana away to where he was killed.
Our source reiterated that Gana had surrendered with 172 members of the militia group. About 130 of the boys were said to have changed their mind at the point the Army intercepted their convoy, suspecting insincerity of the entire arrangement. They were said to have turned back and discontinued the journey while 42 members of the group continued with Gana.
Meanwhile, besides Gana, there was no indication that any other member of the group was killed by the soldiers.
The incident has been generating controversies in Tiv land both in Benue and Taraba states.
National Daily is following the developing for more updates.

				
				PV: 
				110
			Share this on WhatsApp