Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti is set for another crisis following the suspension of the Special Adviser to the President on political matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and ten other big wigs of state chapter over alleged anti-party activities.
In a statement signed by the State Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, in Ado Ekiti, on Thursday, the party stated that the disciplinary action was taken against Ojudu and others, for defying NEC.
Others who were suspended alongside Ojudu include: Engr Ayo Ajibade, Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Hon Femi Adeleye, Bunmi Ogunleye, Akin Akomolafe, Bamigboye Adegoroye, Wole Oluyede, Olusoga Owoeye, Dele Afolabi, and Toyin Oluwasola.
The statement read: “The State Executive Council of the Ekiti State chapter of APC has approved indefinite suspension of the following members with immediate effect from 23rd September, 2020.
“The suspension is based on the recommendation of the investigative/disciplinary committee inaugurated by SEC to investigate the disobedience of certain members to the directive of NEC of 25th June, 2020, which directed members of the party not to institute any court action and to withdraw existing cases in courts.
“The decision of SEC has been communicated to the Caretaker/extra ordinary convention planning committee of the party.”
The suspension followed the recommendation of a ten-member Disciplinary panel set up the state chapter in line with a directive from the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee, following the refusal of Ojudu and other members to comply with the directive to withdraw pending cases against the party from the court.
Recall that the NEC had in its meeting of June 25, 2020 directed that all cases pending in courts should be withdrawn for speedy resolution of internal crises in the party.
Ojudu and his allies had instituted a case challenging the process that produced the party’s exco members at the state, local government and ward level in the state, alleging that the names of those occupying party positions from the ward to the State level were not duly constituted through a legal and recognizable congress in the state.
Reacting to his suspension, Senator Ojudu said the action of the party was a nullity and of no consequences, saying the party’s SWC lacks the power to suspend any member.
“Let it be said that the only organ of the party that can try and suspend a member is the Ward. What they have done is clearly illegal. I remain a member of APC and a committed one at that. I am not like them traitors who claim to be APC and go work for PDP in Oyo and Edo”.
One of the suspended member, Prince Bamgboye Adegoroye, on Wednesday, said the party would crumble in Ekiti, if they are expelled as being allegedly hatched by Fayemi.
“We are therefore calling our national leadership to stop Dr Kayode Fayemi from killing our party in Ekiti. Things are bad enough now for the party in the state. Allowing him to carry out our expulsion will only spell doom for our beloved APC.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp