Mikel had questioned Turkish football league authorities over their decision to allow the Turkish Super Lig to continue amid the global coronavirus pandemic.

Despite growing concerns globally, top-flight matches were played in Turkey behind closed doors while other leagues across Europe had suspended action.

Mikel publicly disagreed with the policy and asked authorities to halt the league while also going on social media to post this message.

“There is more to life than football. I do not feel comfortable and do not want to play football in this situation. Everyone should be at home with their families and loved ones in this critical time. The season should be canceled as the world is facing such turbulent times”

Though Mikel’s post received some positive responses from other football players, his club officials condemned his action and his contract was terminated mutually.

Reacting to the drama, former Trabzonspor player, Ogenyi Onazi said the club versus player matter was sensitive, but he thinks Mikel’s words were not suitable and the reason he fell out with club president , Ahmet Agaoglu.

“It is a sensitive issue for Mikel to make public condemnations and the club president did not take it lightly. Mikel is well respected at Trabzonspor but his choice of words was inappropriate”

“For me, this is our job and we have to do what we need to do. We are contracted to the clubs and we need to be careful with our statements. We know health is more important, but there are better ways to pass the right messages”

The Turkish league was halted on March 19 in line with other European leagues but Onazi could no longer join his family in Lagos because Nigeria had close its airspace at the time he was ready to travel.

The former Lazio of Italy player confirms the Turkish government had been making efforts at curbing the spread of coronavirus.

“Turkish government installed cameras at airports to detect the temperature of people coming into the country from the airports and the Turkish league was the first to begin playing matches without fans at the stadium. This was done to curb the spread of the virus.”

Ogenyi Onazi who recommended Mikel Obi’s arrival at Trabzonspor also recorded 69 caps and 6 goals at the club before joining Denizlispor earlier this year.





			
			PV: 
			0