The Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, has condemned the glaring unprofessional conduct and misuse of firearms by a policeman at Ebem Ohafia area of Abia State on Friday, 17th April, 2020 which led to the unfortunate death of one Mr. Ifeanyi Arunsi. The IGP equally condemned the resort to self-help by some people and the resultant arson and damage to Government property and operational assets of the Nigeria Police Force.
Meanwhile, the IGP has set-up a Special Investigation Panel headed by the DIG Anthony Michael Ogbizi, in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department to carry out a comprehensive investigation into the unfortunate incident. The Panel will review police actions and inactions prior, during and after the death of Mr. Ifeanyi Arunsi and the circumstances surrounding the attack on the police station and damage to property.
In a related development, the IGP has ordered the immediate deployment of CP Janet Agbede as the new Commissioner of Police, Abia State. She takes over from CP Okon Ene who has been redeployed to the Force Headquarters, Abuja.
The victim in a video which went virile on the social media clearly exposed the police brutality after he refused to offer bribe to them. He was accosted on his way to the bank, Zenith Bank, by the police who stopped him at a particular market where people were gathered buying and selling.  The police shot two tyres of his car for refusing to offer the, bribe to be allowed to go to the bank.
The police held to the claim that he disobeyed government’s restriction order. However, the incident occurred at a market where people were seen gathering buying and selling. The police lost the defence with disobeying movement restriction order because no policeman gave attention to the market that was opened for business that same Friday at the scene of the brutality.
The victim shouted it loud that the police threatened his life after shooting at two tyres of car. The man was alone in his car and was afraid to open the door. The leader of the team, called for reinforced which led to the arrival of some policemen in NOPOL uniform forcing to the man to come down from the car.
Something similar to that incident occurred in Lagos in Tuesday but in a mild manner. A lady was going to buy water when the police accosted her towards the evening time. The first demanded for her PASS required for people on exemption from the lockdown order, she did not have. Then, the police demanded for the vehicle particulars and she gave out the original copies. The police ordered she should come down from the car. Then, she quickly turned and drove off to seek help.
Coming back with two relations, the patrol team were seen driving off the scene. They were trailed and later stopped on the way.
After explanations from both sides, the car particulars were certified valid, and were returned but on the basis that something be given to the police.
The Inspector General of Police has since the lockdown repeatedly cautioned the police against brutality and violence on citizens. The southeast case is clear test for the IG to enforce discipline in the Force.
Meanwhile, condoling the family and friends of the Late Ifeanyi Arunsi, the IGP enjoined the people of Ebem Ohafia in Abia State not to take the laws into their own hands; but rather allow the course of justice to prevail at all times. He assured that the investigation into the case will be swift and thorough, promising that justice will surely be done to all parties.








			
			PV: 
			0