Dear Akin,

You are no more.
You died this morning.
You committed suicide.

Sad.

And unfortunately it’s another sad case of #SARS.

I will prosialize your tweets here.

According to you, it happened again tonight (this is 5days ago), you had the same nightmare that’s been reoccurring for months now since the incident happened, same faces. SARS officials in their black uniform carrying you (and your roomies) away in the dead of the night and you wake up with serious chest pain from fear of what you were about to experience.

The main truama happened on the 2nd of February 2020.  You said, you were in your hostel working on your Post Data slides because you had to present the next day, when all of a sudden these SARS official entered your room. It was around 10pm at night and you still had your generator on.

Maybe that was why they came to your room first. They just collected your laptop and phones, your friends were also in the room, you were all told to dress up and go outside. One of your friends was given a dirty slap for practically not dressing up fast enough “what did we do?” you kept asking.

They didnt say anything and they threatened to waste you if you didnt stop asking silly questions. You were handcuffed like armed robbers all 17 of you, you were squeezed into small cars like goats to the slaughter, and from camp Abeokuta you were taken down to Ibara police station.

Immediately you got there you decided to plead with who was in charge that you had a presentation in school the next day, that they should please let you go early because at that time it was 12 in the midnight already, they asked you pay 200k! “Ha! For what?’ you told him to go through your phone that you are not a fraudster, that you were a forex trader.

He went through your phone and that of your friends. There was nothing implicating there, except for the bank alerts and those money were not even yours, you told him they were investors money, “I forgot to mention I opened a trade on my trading platform before they came to arrest us, I also pleaded with them to give me access to my phone so I can close the trade or something they thought I wanted to call someone and they slapped me for requesting for my phone, the trade kept running till the next day”.

You slept in a cell that night for doing nothing, police slapped you and beat you, prisoners beat you when you entered the cell too! You cried till the next morning not because you were sleeping in a cell for doing nothing but because you were on a losing trade with thousands of $ online and also because you were going to miss your project presentation which cannot be repeated.

You were paraded like a thief in the morning and they were asking you what you did, “with tears in my eyes I said “nothing” they still slapped me and told me to admit I’m a fraudster”.

Without having anything incriminating on your phone! That day you lost almost $20k trading and you missed your presentation in school. “They still wanted to collect bail after beating and harassing us for nothing. Since then I’ve been in massive debt, I couldn’t complete my education” you said.

“And my life has been in shambles, I have receipts for everything I said on here incase anyone thinks I’m lying. Suicide has been the only thought on my mind every day. So incase I hurt myself and anyone is curious as to why I did it. This is my story”.

Sad.

That was your twitter thread many days ago.

We never saw it. It didn’t trend. Nobody retweeted or shared it. I sure didn’t see it as well. Perhaps I would have InstaLetterized it. And perhaps, hopefully someone would have reached out.

And you wouldn’t have tweeted, “I guess its goodbye now. no one heard my cry for justice and this had to happen haha…bye world” this morning.

Strolling down your Twitter Handle @Akinadeoluwa17 and I see tweets like:

“A man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta do”.

And…

“Man I cant live like this mannn”.

Then I saw this one that struck me a different way:

“Curse God and die”.

Sad times.

People are passing through difficult times. This is the worse time for people going through depression. And yes, at times, money can help fight depression.

One of your tweets reads, “This is the worse time to be owing people money damn”.

This was made just few days ago. And I do agree. It’s quite depressing to be owing people money this time. Your creditors will do all they can to get their money this time. Because of the economy and the lockdown.

And it’s not everyone that has the heart to survive it.

Rest In Peace. Depression is a reality. I once wrote against the subject. Not understanding why people would be depressed. After some study, I think I do understand the subject too.

Anyone can be depressed. I battled depression in January. It was scary and terrible. I am out of it. It’s a sad one here.

SARS.

We need them. But they have become a problem too.

If you understand the lives of a typical SARS man. You will understand why they are as demonic as they are.

Some of them are also mostly depressed. They have seen robbers killed their friends and colleagues. Some are battling serious level of depression.

How often are the trained? Most of them need therapy sessions.

God help us. Death here and there. Covid-19, Bandits, Suicide, SARS…

Too bad. We need reform. Relife.

Your Sad spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: Please let’s take out time to check on people this period. I know we are the texts generation. Lets actually do facetime, and audio calls. I am guilty. I hardly hardly call anyone.

			
			PV: 
			0