Hope is rising speedily in the international community of the possibility of exterminating coronavirus pandemic from the various countries of the world as scientists are beginning to make breakthroughs in their research. France has made a major breakthrough in the discovery of a vaccine that can treat coronavirus with minimal uncertainty.
Professor Didier Rooult in a study at IHU Mediterranee Infection, Marseille, France, treatment of 1061 coronavirus patients with hydroxychloroquine which yielded successful result.
The result of the study released at the weekend indicated that at IHU Mediterranee Infection, Marseille, France, a group of 1061 COVID-19 patients were administered HCO-AZ combination for about three days with a follow up of about nine days.
The resulted showed that after the treatment with hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin, a complete virological cure was successful in 91.7% of patients within 10 days.

Major findings indicated that:
No cardiac toxicity was observed.
· A good clinical outcome and virological cure was obtained in 973 patients within 10 days (01.7%).

However, 46 patients (4.3%) patients could not be cured; 10 of the patients were transferred to intensive care units, 5 patients died (0.47%), they were of the age bracket 74 to 95 years old. Then, 31 patients were identified to require 10 days of hospitalization or more.
Apparently, the researchers were of the conclusion that the HCO-AZ combination, being administered immediately after diagnosis, is a safe and efficient treatment for COVID-19 with very low mortality rate of 0.5% in elderly patients. Secondly, treatment of coronavirus patients with hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin prevents worsening cases, clears virus persistence and contagiosity in most cases.
Many countries are already demanding for supply of hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin in Europe.
Human race has chances of survival as the coronavirus pandemic persists in several countries of the world. Besides, some countries in Africa, essentially, Nigeria, have been making remarkable success in the cure of coronavirus after weeks of isolation and treatment of patients.

			
			PV: 
			0