Wiktor Dombraye, 18, the son of former Nigeria international, Eddy Lord Dombraye, has explained how he chose volleyball over basketball and football that gave his father both fame and fortune.
National Daily learnt that  Wiktor in 2019 signed a professional contract with Indykpol AZS UWM Olsztyn in plusliga, spoke about his career and how he chose the game over football and basketball after his teacher introduced him to it.
He said:”I started playing volleyball seven years ago. I currently play for AZS UWM Olsztyn in junior league, plusliga, having signed a contract with them in October 2019. I played football when I was six years old, because every kid was playing football. My school coach introduced me to volleyball and I loved it. I also like playing basketball if I have the time, but volleyball is everything for me.”
In a separate chat to yours sincerely, his father who excelled in the colours of a litany of local and foreign clubs from 1995 to 2008, said he never tried convincing his son to follow in his footsteps.
“I did not try to convince him to play football, I think he’s better in basketball and volleyball but he chose volleyball, so I just have to encourage and motive him. He was invited by Nigeria to play in the under 19 World Championships in Tunsia last year, but his club did not release him and that was when he signed his professional contract,” said Dombraye, a UEFA Licence A coaching certificate holder who formerly coach Arsenal KIEV and looking to tinkering a club in the Nigeria Professional Football League.
Dombraye, who excelled as a midfielder/striker at Premier Breweries, Iwuanyanwu Nationale, Bendel Insurance, Iwuanyanwu Nationale, ŁKS Łódź, Stomil Olsztyn, OFK Beograd, Volyn Lutsk, Ikva Mlyniv, Zakarpattia Uzhhorod, and Fenix-Illichovets and capped by Nigeria at U20 and senior levels, said he would like his son to represent Nigeria in volleyball, appreciating the immense effort made by Nigeria to secure his release ahead of last year’s under 19 World Championships in Tunsia.
He said: “I would love my son to represent Nigeria in the future, but it will be his final decision either to represent Nigeria or Poland. The national volleyball coach, Dennis Eleri and President Nigeria Volleyball Federation, Engr Musa Nimrod did their best to secure his release for last year’s tournament in Tunsia, but it wasn’t possible because he had just signed a contract with his club.”