gives stimulus packages

By Olanrewaju Adesanya



The Executive Chairman of Ifako Ijaiye Local Government,Apostle Oloruntoba Oke has distributed 2000 relief packages to residents of Ifako Ijaiye Local Government to ameliorate the difficulties posed by the 14 days sit at home order,issued by both state and Federal government to stem the spread of COVID-19 pandemics.

The servant leader who personally distributed the packages which contains; Rice, Beans, Garri and Semovita, did a house to house tour round his ward to identify with people as the scourge COVID-19 bites harder.

Toba, noted that the most important thing for Lagosians and Nigerians now is to comply with the sit-at-home order as it is basically meant for their good and welfare.

“What is paramount to the Governor of Lagos State Mr.Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Nigerian President Mohammadu Buhari, at this time is the security and safety of people,the health of Nigerians.

“Governor Sanwo-Olu is agile and is putting everything in place to ensure we contain this pandemic,to an extent that Lagos State has become a reference point in terms of adequate planning  and care.

“We must comply totally with the restriction order,the precautionary measures afforded to contain the spread o the virus by government is for the good of all .
“The only thing that could be done to stop the spread is for people to sit-at-home.
” This not only applicable in Nigeria alone but in other climes all over the world,Britain and United States are no exception ,it is total lockdown,so people should comply with whatever instructions or precautionary measures by the state”.

The council boss in a chat with newsmen after the exercise,disclosed that it was borne out of an agreement between him,the management of the council as well as the legislative arm to give succour to the people at this difficult time.

Adding that the councillors having been elected like him,were asked to man their wards as regards the distribution,while he man his own ward and the largesse cut across the seven wards simultaneously.

“It was a collective decision that while I coordinate my ward,the councillors should in turn coordinate in each of the seven wards.


The Chairman added that the emergency stimulus package distribution will consider as top priority, the most vulnerable households in each ward across the Council area who rely on daily wages.

“This is an emergency situation that require a catalytic initiative by our administration  with the hope that well meaning corporate organizations , Non Governmental Organizations  and Private individuals can step up to complement the effort of the local government akin to what our representative at the Lagos House of Assembly has done some few days ago” Toba Oke said.


The Chairperson, Pastor Mrs Modupe Oke and all members of Exco were all present to partake and witness the auspicious event.

The distribution cuts across the following localities;Ogba, Ifako, Ifako Titun,Agege Low Cost Housing Estate,Coker, Olufemi Ajayi, Obawole, Iju, Balogun, Iju Ishaga, Ogundimu and Ajuwon.

Also the following streets were also direct beneficiaries of the council’s boss largesse,Bola Oyewo Street, Obawole, Abolaji Street, Obawole,Ndike Street,Obawole,Adeyemi Street, Obawole and Akinte Str, Obawole.

It would however be recalled that the council’s Decontamination and disinfection team,also kick started thorough fumigation of public utilities and spaces within the council area since Saturday,for which residents have been commending the initiative of the government.



			
			PV: 
			0