By Richards Adeniyi
There is no doubt that the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) tried by surrendering buses to port users to ensure that the nation’s ports continues to operate by providing free buses for the movement of accredited clearing agents and port workers affected by the lockdown to access the ports to enable them clear their consignments. It is however sad that there were problems that made these plans unworkable.
Banks operating in Apapa remain shut – a development that made the clearing of goods at the ports to be virtually impossible.
The council called for synergy amongst port users and government agencies to support the federal government efforts in containing the scourge of the deadly virus while making it possible to sustain port operations during this period.
The present situation has indeed caused unimaginable disruption of the logistic supply chain as users and providers of service are seemingly unable to carry out their obligations for reasons beyond their control.
The Executive Secretary, Barrister Hassan Bello as an arbiter is conscious of the fact that obligations, responsibilities, duties and rights may have been frustrated but the council is still trying to find lasting solution to the problem by continuing to discuss with all the parties so that a balanced solution can be achieved.
Freight forwarders under the aegis of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) has criticized terminal operators for flouting the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) directive on the suspension of storage and demurrage fees on cargoes at the seaports as the Managing Director of NPA had earlier directed terminal operators to provide relief for businesses by suspending rent charges on consignments.
The Authority while recognizing the financial implication of the policy on the terminal also stressed that “they are considering a shift in our operational charges to ameliorate the situation.”
Despite the letters of the NPA boss to the terminal operators and shipping companies, nothing has changed at the ports.
Clearing agents are still paying demurrage charges and storage charges at the ports as the operators have refused to comply with the NPA’s directives.
All efforts made with the terminal operators and shipping companies to obey the NPA’s directive have so far, proved abortive as they claimed that they were not aware about the circular to suspend demurrage and storage fees.
It is therefore, sad that despite the letters written to the terminal operators and shipping companies, clearing agents are still paying demurrage and storage charges at the ports.
The Executive Secretary of the NSC is however, intensifying efforts to ensure that the goods are cleared during this period of the lockdown at the nation’s ports.
According to the ANLCA national Secretary, Alhaji Mukaila Babatunde observed that the terminal operators and the shipping companies have failed to implement the directives by claiming that they were not aware about the circular to suspend demurrage and storage fees.
The ANLCA scribe lamented that “there are so many things that are working against the people – staying at home now.”
Although the management of the Nigerian Ports Authority assures all stakeholders of its commitment to facilitation of trade in Nigeria, the National Daily correspondent on a visit to the Apapa port observed that business went on as usual in many areas except the collection of Customs duty and few other port operations that were adversely affected by the closure of Commercial banks.
While other banking transactions were being carried out online it was not possible for importers and customs brokers to process bank drafts for duty payment as it was not possible to process bank drafts as these could not be processed online although it was observed as container laden trucks were seen exiting the ports – only for those whose duty have been previously paid.