The reign of Sir Alex Fergusson at Old Trafford witnessed the ever green cherished memories of Cristiano Ronaldo moments in England.
The 18-year old Portuguese arrived United from Sporting CP in 2003 and became an instant hit while sending shivers into the spines of all Premiership defenders with his talismanic prowess.
The 18-year old Cristiano became an instant hit upon his arrival at United in 2003
Sadly, United have struggled to replace the five time Ballon d’or award winner since his departure for Real Madrid in 2017 as all their attempts have been futile with the likes of Angel Di Maria, Memphis Depay and Alexis Sanchez all flopped as United Number 7.
Meanwhile, United have been heavily linked with the transfer of the England international sensation Jadon Sancho who has been dubbed the new Cristiano Ronaldo at some sporting quarters due to his consistent proficiency since he arrived Borussia Dortmund from Manchester City in 2017.
Jadon Sancho has been heavily linked with a sensational move to United
National Daily has learned that United hitman Marcus Rashford will gladly welcome the potential arrival of the Dortmund winger, Jadon Sancho, to Old Trafford.
Rashford, a close friend with Sancho, wants the 20-year-old to make a transfer move and join the Red Devils next summer.
“It would be good [if Jadon Sancho joined Man Utd],” Rashford told Bleacher Report.
“Sancho is a great player. He’s like the new generation player.
“It’s exciting to watch the player he’s becoming, and hopefully, we can all play together.
“That would be good. Sancho plays off the cuff. He’s imaginative. I think in this generation, they’re the things you need to be world-class.”
Rashford will be delighted to welcome Sancho to Old Trafford
Manchester United are prepared to offer Sancho the iconic no.7 shirt, in a bid to lure him to join the club this summer.
Interestingly, it is believed that the Old Trafford club is leading the race to sign Sancho from Dortmund for a club-record fee National Daily further learnt.

			
			PV: 
			0