There are rising disquiets across Nigeria over the initiative of the federal government to import ventilators and invite medical doctors from China to strengthen the fight against coronavirus in the country. Many stakeholders have cautioned the Nigerian government against the dangers of patronizing China at the current stage of fighting coronavirus infection across the world. Many countries of the world are already suspecting China of double standard in the coronavirus outbreak which has threatened humanity, shut down economies and social systems of virtually all countries in the world.
There is a global suspicion that China inflicted human race across the world with coronavirus just to turn around and provide the medicals for its treatment. It is widely argued that China cannot infest the world with coronavirus and turn to provide the solution for its cure, then, expects governments across the world to accept the medical facilities from China.
The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) on Saturday chided the federal government over the initiative to invite in Chinese medical doctors and import ventilators from China to combat COVID-19. The NUJ argued that the decision will be counterproductive.
The NUJ cautioned the federal government to be mindful of how China eradicated coronavirus in Wuhan, Mainland China, the only city of the coronavirus infection in the country.
The Union admonished the federal government to investigate the Coronavirus outbreak after the launch of 5G communication network in China.
“It is pertinent to plead with the Federal Government to stop this Medical team from coming to Nigeria because of the Italian example where there was an inexplicable spike in Covid 19 related deaths when the Chinese doctors arrived the country,” NUJ declared in a statement in Abuja.
Moreover, the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) on Saturday opposed the federal government plan to invite 18-man medical personnel from China who include medical doctors, nurses, and other auxiliary personnel for the fight of COVID-19 in Nigeria.
NARD President, Dr. Aliyu Sokomba, in a statement on Saturday advocated that the federal government should appoint major medical personnel in the country to handle the threatening coronavirus pandemic than import medical staff from China.
Sokomba had declared in the statement: “The attempt to import Human resources for Health from China into Nigeria where many qualified medical doctors and other cadres of health workers are yet to be gainfully employed is the height of insensitivity and disservice on the part of the Federal Government and their advisers.
“The challenge at hand would have been sufficient marker to agitate the Federal Government to the direction and timing for massive employment of medical and other health care workers to provide enough hands in the industry to battle the COVID 19 as other nations are doing.”
In further condemnation of the government, Sokomba declared: “In the interim, NARD wishes to distance herself from the planned importation of Chinese medical experts to Nigeria in whatever guise or hood for the reasons presented in this write-up and many more.
“NARD shall not contemplate further warning to distance herself from the Chinese adventure by way of withdrawing all her members from every public health facility in Nigeria so that the anticipated downturn in the output of Nigeria’s healthcare service delivery can be properly situated and traceable to the Chinese as is the case today in Italy.
“NARD hereby reiterates her position which was canvased earlier in the week for the FG to immediately and massively employ all qualified but unemployed doctors and other healthcare workers. Get them trained, insured, motivated and deployed nationwide.”
NARD chided the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, who at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing on Friday declared: “I have been notified of gifts of medical supplies from China, courtesy of a group of Chinese companies working here in Nigeria. A special cargo aircraft shall leave Nigeria in a few days to collect the items which include commodities, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and ventilators.
“Of great interest is that an 18-man team of medical experts, including doctors, nurses and public health advisers shall come along with the flight to assist us.”

			
			PV: 
			0