Both Yobe and Jigawa states have extended the lockdown over COVID-19 following the continued rise in number of cases across the country.
While Yobe state has extended the stay at home order for three weeks, Jigawa state also asked its workers to remain at home for another two weeks.
In a statement issued by the Yobe State COVID-19 Prevention and Control Committee, led by the state Deputy Governor, Idi Barde Gubana on Tuesday, it directed civil servants to remain at home, while also banning movement into and out of the state, most especially, across its borders with Bauchi and Jigawa States. It said movement in and out of the two states would remain restricted till further notice.
The committee in a statement by the state Commissioner of Home Affairs, Information and Culture, Alhaji Abdullahi Bego, who is also a member, resolved among other things:
“That in view of the ongoing prevalence of COVID-19 in certain parts of the country, movement into and out of the state, especially across our borders with Bauchi and Jigawa States, will remain restricted.
“The security agencies, especially the police, civil defence and vigilantes, will continue to enforce the restriction. The stay-at-home and work-from-home directive for civil servants from Grade Level 12 and below has been extended until April 30th. People across the state should continue to observe and implement all measures against COVID-19, including social distancing, regular hand washing, and excellent respiratory etiquette.”
Similarly, Jigawa state Muhammad Badaru, while announcing the extension, said workers in the state should be working from home until April 21.
He, meanwhile, exempted those on essential duties like the Ministries of Health, Finance and Water Resources.
According to the governor, the extension became necessary following the increase in the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus the country.
The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria as at Tuesday night was 258. Forty four patients have been discharged with six deaths.
The virus is also increasing to more new state as Katsina and Delta had index cases on Tuesday.

 

			
			PV: 
			0