Some of the beneficiaries of the 1st phase of InnerCity Mission's emergency food distribution in Lagos
 

        
 








Two thousand families have benefited from the 1st phase of the InnerCity Mission’s emergency food distribution as part of palliatives for the lockdown to prevent spread of the coronavirus.
According to the Director of Innercity Mission for Children, Mrs. Omo Alabi, the 2000 families are from 27 inner city communities and 10 vulnerable orphanages in Lagos who have been adversely by the recent preventive measures of the lockdown.
Speaking on the initiatives, Mrs. Alabi said the founder of the InnerCity Mission for Children, Rev. Dr. Chris Oyakhilome DSc DD is committed to working with the government to ensure that efforts to combat the virus are not made in vain by those who may be driven to the streets as a result of hunger.
“As we reach out to these needy with food supplies, it is our prayer that soon we will be able to put this behind us and our cities will return back to normal. Pastor Mrs Omo Alabi, Director, Innercity Mission for Children,” she added.
“Our distribution has commenced in earnest in collaboration with Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture to deprived families in communities such as Majindu, Oworo, Makuko, Ajegunle, Iwaya, Haruna, Kosofe communities to mention a few.”
One of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Rose, a mother of three expressed her gratitude as she collected her food parcel.
She said: “I was not expecting food today because I didn’t know how to feed myself and my children, but I thank the Man of God, Pastor Chris and the InnerCity Mission for giving me food. Now I can feed my children.”
Recall that the InnerCity Mission, a non-governmental organization under the auspices of the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International last Friday partnered with the Lagos state government, donating food items for 20000 households.
The food items was received by the state’s commissioner for Agriculture, Hon. Gholahan Lawal and the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty, Hon. Lola Akande at the Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority office in Oko-Oba.
The InnerCity Mission for Children was birthed as a vision of the world-renowned Pastor and Philanthropist, Rev. Dr. Chris Oyakhilome DSc DD to take action to meet the needs of indigent children and families. In his words, “The challenge of the poor is not just about their needs; we are equally meeting our own needs. It is in your interest to help the poor. We have a divine responsibility to God, to the Church and the society to reach children in our inner cities.”










			
			PV: 
			0