The Covid-19 pandemic has dealt the world an unfair blow while paralyzing almost all global activities.
Sports like most normal events has been halted worldwide due to the ruthless epidemic.
Report reaching National Daily discloses that former Liverpool player and manager Sir Kenny Dalglish has tested positive for coronavirus as confirmed by the club.
National Daily further gathered that Dalglish was admitted to hospital on April 8 due to an infection “which required intravenous antibiotics”, but was also tested for the virus, which “unexpectedly” came back positive despite him not showing any symptoms.
The Liverpool legend will remain in hospital for further treatment.
Dalglish won 8 league championships and 3 European Cups with Liverpool
“Prior to his admission to hospital, Sir Kenny had chosen to voluntarily self-isolate for longer than the advised period together with his family,” said a statement from Dalglish’s family on the Liverpool club website.
“He would urge everyone to follow the relevant government and expert guidance in the days and weeks ahead.
“He would like to take this opportunity to thank the brilliant NHS staff, whose dedication, bravery and sacrifice should be the focus of the nation’s attention at this extraordinary time.
The statement added: “He would also ask that they are given the space to do their jobs during what is an extremely challenging time for them and that his own family’s privacy is respected.
“He looks forward to being home soon. We will provide further updates as and when it is appropriate.”
As expected, well-wishes messages for Dalglish are already pouring in from fellow Liverpool legends like Steven Gerrard, Ian Rush and Jamie Carragher amongst others.
Former captain Gerrard posted a picture of one of his daughters alongside Dalglish on Instagram and wrote: “Get well soon king”, in a nod to his old manager’s nickname.
Carragher also wrote on Instagram: “Hopeful Kenny will be rid of the virus ASAP.”
Former Liverpool striker Ian Rush also took to the social networking website to pay tribute to his former team-mate, who won the European Cup on three occasions during an illustrious playing career with the club.
Rush wrote: “Wishing a speedy recovery to the best…Sir Kenny Dalglish. Get well soon.”
 

			
			PV: 
			0