The targeted publicity blitz that may have guided Governor Godwin Obaseki’s lobby of President Muhammadu Buhari for exercise of prerogative of mercy to grant pardon to late Professor Ambrose Alli, former Governor of Bendel State, appears to have backfired when the family scolded the president that Alli was never found guilty. He was, however, acknowledged by the family for his effort.
Prof Ambrose Alli was among those listed to have been granted state pardon by President Buhari on Thursday.
However, Ambrose Alli’s son, Andrew Alli, speaking on behalf of the family, on the posthumous presidential pardon granted his father by President Buhari on Thursday, said they have never believed that Prof Alli was guilty of anything, other than giving his all to improve the lot of the people of the former Bendel State and, indeed, Nigeria.
He, however, commended President Buhari for the gesture, saying the presidential pardon demonstrated that his father never committed any crime. Andrew also commended Governor Obaseki for the initiative.
Andrew in series of tweets on his official Twitter handle wrote: “We are aware of the announcement concerning the pardon of my father, Professor Ambrose Alli, made by the Government, via its social media pages.
“Although, we are yet to receive any direct official communication on this matter, we are pleased to hear that our father/uncle/brother/grandfather has received a presidential pardon.
“We have never believed that he was guilty of anything, other than giving his all to improve the lot of the people of the former Bendel State and, indeed, Nigeria. This is demonstrated by the enduring legacy that he left.
“We thank His Excellency, President Buhari, as well as His Excellency, Governor Obaseki, and all those who have supported the process inside and outside government, for their recognition of this fact.”
Ambrose Alli, a professor of medicine, was the first civilian Governor of Bendel State from October 1, 1979 to December 31, 1983. Ambrose Alli was a victim of the December 31 coup led by then Major General Muhammadu Buhari, now Nigerian president.
The former Bendel governor was sentenced to 100 years in prison by a military tribunal set up by the military junta led by Buhari on allegation of misappropriating of N983,000 meant for a road project.
The late governor later regained his freedom after High Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Esama of Benin, paid a fine to the government.
Ambrose Alli died few years after he was released from prison at the age of 60 on September 22, 1989, at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH).
 

			
			PV: 
			0