By Richard Adeniyi
Truck owners under the aegis of Corporate Truck Fleet Owners Association has joined the fight against coronavirus in the country by donating hand sanitizers, customized buckets for washing hands, disinfectants and other protective items to the Lagos Port Complex (LPC) of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA).
The President of the Trucking association, Mrs. Folake Soji-George led the team for the presentation yesterday, even as she described the items as a token by the group.
Folake said: “At a time when people are getting weary of the COVID-19 pandemic. We want to use this as our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to reach out to the management and staff at Lagos Port Complex of NPA.”
“This is just a token to identify and support the organization at such difficult times. We pray that God would keep us save even as we continue to adhere to social distancing and other health and safety measures at the ports”
The Port Manager, Lagos Port Complex, NPA, Mrs. Olufumilayo Olotu, who received the items on behalf of the NPA management, expressed appreciation to the truckers for the donation.
According to her, the items would go a long way in supporting NPA and the Federal Government’s effort in the fight against the coronavirus disease at the nation’s seaports.
“We thank you for your collaboration with us and for sharing in the Federal Government’s commitment in fighting COVID-19. Some of these items would be placed at the truck parks and others given to the sister agencies as we have been instructed by our Managing Director to extend these items to others,” she said.
She observed that the items donated are relevant to the fight against COVID-19, especially at the truck parks were truckers converge without adequate provision of such buckets, sanitizers and disinfectants.
Olotu also stated that the items would be shared to other sister agencies at the ports to ensure all stakeholders are furnished with requisite tools to maintain top hygiene and safety precautions to curb the spread of the coronavirus.
The Port Manager also assured that some of the items would be given to sister agencies at the port including the Port Authority Police Command and Port Health Services.