The Traditional Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (TMPN), has suggested African local herbs as possible cure to the ravaging coronavirus pandemic which has so far infected 665 people in Nigeria.
Speaking for the body, Vice-chairman, Traditional Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (TMPN) for the South-West zone, Prince Sakariyat Oyedeji Mabro, however, regretted that government of Nigeria was underestimating traditional medicine and its efficacy, adding that “I can authoritatively tell you that we can treat anybody with that virus successfully within three days.”
He maintained that traditional medical practitioners had solutions to thousands of ailment plaguing millions of people around the world, including COVID-19.
Mabro explained that what was now known as coronavirus around the world had been in Sahara Africa for so long, especially in the South West Nigeria.
To him, there is no difference between symptoms identified with an ailment called ‘Soponna’ in South West Nigeria and those symptoms Covid-19 presents, noting that African medical practitioners, after frantic efforts, discovered appropriate solution to the ailment through herbs.
He said the potency of African herbs in tackling the virus can never be overemphasized, saying it is incumbent on the necessary authorities to look inward and place more premium on traditional medicine.
Mabro explained that there were cases of outbreaks of epidemics in the past across the region, which were contained headlong by traditional practitioners with high degree of effectiveness.
“The ravaging coronavirus in the world is a thing of worry for everybody, unfortunately, African leaders have not been able to project the efficacy of African herbs to the rest of the world and help humanity as a whole.
“COVID-19 is the same thing as what we known as ‘Soponna’ in our area here, it is the same symptoms, and we have conquered this over the years through frantic efforts with efficacious herbs.
“Take typhoid fever for instance, we have herbs that can cure the fever within two days irrespective of how chronic it is, same for diabetes and many others, in which orthodox medicine are still struggling to find efficacious solution.
“I believe Nigerian government would seize this moment and project the efficacy of our traditional knowledge to the world for the good of humanity,” Mabro said.

 

			
			PV: 
			0