gives relief items to constituents

The Federal House of Representatives member representing Badagry constituency, Hon. Bamgbose Hontoyon has urged his constituents to persevere a little more and make concerted efforts to ward off the COVID-19 scourge, described as an unexpected phase of live that will soon pass away.

Bamgbose made this assertion while handing out relief items to constituents at his residence in Badagry, in a bid to ameliorate the attendant hardship caused by the ravaging virus.

The scheme which he tagged: COVID-19  EMERGENCY FOOD RESPONSE, has three items;Rice, Garri (Cassava Flour) and Fresh Fish all bagged in separate branded transparent bags.

Thousands of his constituents immediately got wind of the food largesse  and consequently thronged  his residence to get their fair share, they were however ushered in, in tens to ensure they observe the social distance as adviced by medical experts.

The ranking lawmaker, while in a chat with newsmen in the course of the distribution,notes
that it is important that everyone get involved in the fight against corona virus irrespective of status, political party or religious affiliations as it is clearly a pandemic that has cost so many life’s.

“Except you are not human or have no human feeling, you can’t claim ignorance of what is happening. We can see from the records how corona virus has eaten deep into the economies of the nation’s of the world and  affected many homes.

“My aim is to pay back to my community once again as part of my leadership style to support the state, federal and local government.

“I packaged three items for the people; Rice, Garri (Cassava Flour) and Fresh Fish, given to just one person per family as a complete package to enable them feed at least for a few days.

“My focus was also on the less privileged, aged and widows. Although I was also moved to give youths too who lamented serious hunger during this COVID-19 period due to the lockdown.


“I understand how we all feel, please as part of government directive and WHO precautions, let us adhere to the precautionary  measures by washing and always sanitizing our hands, be your brothers keeper by maintaining social distancing, use your nose mask and comply with the Stay-At-Home order.” Said Bamgbose.

He further instructed the people to line up in adherence to the social distancing counsel,while they come into the building in their ten’s.


Mrs. Serah Jesuvivi one of the beneficiaries thanked Hon. Bamgbose for His humanitarian and philanthropic support to Badagry community via the stimulus pack saying this is not the first time. He has been doing it before, especially during festive seasons. She added.

“I had nothing to eat at home, I was sited thinking of what to eat when a friend told me that Bamgbose is around, when I got here to my surprise, I was given Garri, Rice and Fish. I am very happy and I pray God continue to bless Bamgbose always.” Serah said.

“May God continue to bless this man, hunger took me out of home and he just packed by my side and asked me to take, he is an angel”, an unidentified person met along Owode road.







			
			PV: 
			0