Atiku Abubakar
        
 


The office of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has alerted the Nigerian public of an ongoing scandal on the social media which beguile people to hook unto certain links to provide their personal details for transfer of money as palliatives for the ravaging coronavirus infection in the country.










The Atiku media office in a statement on Thursday brought to the attention of Nigerians that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is not connected to a certain notice circulating on social media directing unsuspecting members of the public to a link. “We thus state categorically that any such link asking for the bio-data of Nigerians as beneficiaries of monetary handout is FAKE,” the statement read.
It was further decalred: “This is obviously a SCAM, an attempt to fleece and defraud Nigerians by, perhaps, collecting their vital bio-data for a nefarious  objective orchestrated by masterminds  of the advertisement on social media.

“Atiku Abubakar, his businesses or charity organization is not in the know of this purported plan and the accompanying advertorial. The website address, https//www.atikufoundation.online, given by the scammers for individuals to apply, is unknown to the former Vice President.”
It was noted that  as a patriotic and law abiding citizen, the Waziri Adamawa had pledged his modest public donation to the Federal Government through the Priam Group to support government’s effort in fighting the spread of Corona virus in Nigeria and in providing succour to the most vulnerable of people amid the ravaging pandemic. In addition, he had proposed stimulus package for the most vulnerable for consideration by government.
“We hereby call on relevant security agencies to endeavor to unmask these scammers and ensure that they are brought to book and their evil plots against Nigerians nipped in the bud.
“The official website of the former Vice President is www.atiku.org while his social media handles are as follows:
Facebook: https://web.facebook.com/Atiku.org
Twitter: https://twitter.com/atiku
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/aatiku,” the statement declared.













			
			PV: 
			0