Middle; The Honourable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, Left; Director of Rehabilitation Department of the Ministry, Mrs. Nkechi Onwukwe, and Right; Special Adviser to the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs on Persons Living with Disabilities, Atta Danjuma Abdullmalik, during the stakeholders meeting at NARC Asokoro Abuja, on 23rd April, 2020.

        
 


The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development,  Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, has assured that Persons  Living with Disabilities  would not be left out in the Federal Government ‘s intervention aimed at cushioning the effect of Covid-19 pandemic.
She said the palliatives are handed over to the two states and the FCT affected by the lockdown for onward distribution to the targeted beneficiaries, including Persons Living with Disabilities.
The Minister at the stakeholders meeting between the Minister and Persons Living with Disabilities in Abuja, declared: “This gathering is indeed crucial as welfare and concern of PWDs in Nigeria cannot be over-emphasised. The Buhari-led administration has placed priority on assisting PWDs by coming up with policies and programmes which when executed by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development will ensure inclusion and improve the wellbeing of all PWDs in the country.”
Farouq remarkedL that from the creation of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development on 21st August 2019, that one of the Ministry’s mandate is developing PWDs friendly policies and welfare, noting that according to World Health Organisation (WHO) and the World Bank 2011 report, Nigeria has an estimated 25 million persons living with disabilities.
She noted that PWDs in the society are faced with many barriers to inclusion in all aspects of societal life and do not enjoy full access to societal life on an equal basis with others, especially in the areas of transportation, healthcare, employment, education as well as social and political participation.
Farouq reiterated Federal Government’s commitment to enhancing the living conditions of all Nigerians, especially, the vulnerable in the society.
The President, Albino Foundation of Nigeria Mr. Jake Epelle, in his speech advocated for the creation of a department of Disabilities and need for comprehensive data of persons living with disabilities in the ministry. He also appealed for the appointment of a member   PWDs on the PTF committee,   inclusion in National Social Investment Programme and provision of palliative for PWDs among others.