By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
Senegal has become the first country in Africa to recognize the organic therapy discovered in the African continent by Madagascar.
The Senegalese President, Macky Sall, in a telephone conversation, congratulated the President of Madagascar, Andry Rajoeline, for the breakthrough in discovering the herbal therapy in Africa for the ravaging coronavirus. The Senegalese President, accordingly, placed order for supply of the CIVD-19 Organics from Madagascar.
President Andry Rajoelina of Madagascar confirmed the telephone conversation and request for supply by the Senegalese President. He urged African countries to act fast in containing the coronavirus pandemic and re-open the continent for economic and social activities.
“Africa act fast and protect yourself against Covid-19. Thank you President Macky Sall for our conversations and the confidence. Senegal congratulates Madagascar on the enhanced traditional remedy – Covid-19-Organics and places its first order. Long live Africa, and long live her natural riches,” President Andry Rajoelina had tweeted.
Covid-19-Organics was discovered by Madagascar research group – IMRA. The Organics have capacity for prevention and remedy.
Madagascar has successfully led Africa into the global race in studies for discovery of vaccines for containing the ravaging coronavirus. The country made breakthrough in discovering home solution without dependence on Western technology. Similar opportunity is available in several African countries, essentially, Nigeria where the business of Agbo in Yoruba land has survived decades. The Agbo has proved to be effective in virtually all the ailments it has been administered. Other parts of Nigeria also have their herbal components used for treating different ailments. Not many sicknesses are known to resist the efficacy of herbs or roots used for therapy.
Meanwhile, Lagos State government has announced readiness to commence research on traditional medicine for treatment of coronavirus.