The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) on Tuesday demanded President Muhammadu Buhari improve the welfare package of health workers deployed to combat the spread of coronavirus in the country. The Council also cautioned the President not to obstruct movement of goods or provision of essential services in the country during the period of restriction of movement.
IPAC President, Peter Ameh, in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, enjoined the President to make sure the federal government orders  law enforcement agencies deployed to enforce restriction of movement to eschew from hindering free movement of essential services across the country.
The IPAC President acknowledged complaints that the restriction of movement directed by President Buhari has been obstructing the delivery of basic essential goods and services to citizens. This is in addition to closure of state borders by governors in containing the spread of coronavirus.
Ameh decried that medical personnel exempted from the restriction of movement are finding it difficult having access to places duties because of security operatives turning back motorists on the roads who would have provided help to the stranded workers. He feared this may jeopardize the fight to combat the spread of Coronavirus in the country.
Ameh, accordingly, advocated: “There is, however, an urgent need to engage the services of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) as well as certified airlines in the country to ensure swift response to emergencies and easy movement of personnel within the country.
“With the urgency attach to this recent development, we, hereby, call on the Federal government to immediately direct and ensure that the movement of these essential services are not in any way hindered by law enforcement agencies assigned to enforce the movement restriction, howsoever, across the country.”
Ameh, also demanded: “Government should make buses available for those on essential health and other duties of importance to members of the public.
“Government should also pay compassionate salaries to all those in the front lines risking their lives to keep us all safe
“The federal government is further advised to initiate programmes and policies geared towards cushioning the pains and sufferings which will result from the directive.”

			
			PV: 
			0