In the bid to curbing the spread of the coronavirus in their respective states, both Bayelsa and Taraba have taken further drastic measures.
On Tuesday night, Governor Douye Diri in a statement by his Acting Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, following the expiration of the earlier two-week deadline, extended the lockdown by another two weeks.
He said: “the lockdown affects inter-state vehicular movement, closure of drinking bars at night as well as night clubs. Worship centres are also affected as they have been directed to close down and hold services at home.”
The governor noted that the state was yet to record any case of COVID-19 infection and reiterated his administration commitment to taking preventive measures against the spread of the disease into the state.
He added that the measures were equally necessary to prepare people of the state for any eventuality.
Meanwhile, the Taraba State government has again directed that all mosques and churches in the state be shut down.
The government also directed that all commercial activities in the state should remain shut in order to prevent its citizens from contracting the deadly Coronavirus.
In a state broadcast by the state Deputy Governor, Haruna, on Tuesday night, the government said the directives became necessary following the emergence of cases in neighboring states.
He said the decision to once again lock down the state was to further safeguard the people against the pandemic. He further stated that the lockdown will take effect from Wednesday, the 22nd of April.
“All violators of this directive will be arrested and prosecuted. Vehicles found on the road during the period of the lockdown will be impounded. A mobile court will be established to promptly try offenders at the various points of entry into the state.
“Security operatives are to henceforth check private and commercial vehicles violating the principles of social distancing by overloading their vehicles with passengers.
“All wedding ceremonies, naming ceremonies and other parties remain suspended until further notice,” he added.




 

			
			PV: 
			0