I think we are overflogging the issue as it affects Coach Rohr’s contract.

So the NFF says:

— He must live in Nigeria. (Clause A)
— His salary will be in Naira. (Clause B)
— He must go around the leagues and see how he can nurture the players. (Clause C)

I still don’t understand why everyone thinks this doesn’t make sense.

If the NFF does things in secret. We will complain. If they talk, like they are letting us know the adjustments in the contract. We still talk.

That’s quite worrisome.

Funny that journalists who do everything to get info off the lips of the stakeholders are the ones bashing Pinnick for exposing the adjustment.

Isn’t that one of the issues we have always condemned?

Do we like the fact that our league is managed like a secret cult?

We don’t know how much who is signed. We don’t know details of contracts and the clauses?

Is that what we want?

Are we not happy Amaju is doing things differently. Telling us what the contact is about?

Also, we have interpreted item (C) as the the Super Eagle’s manager being conditioned to include players from the local league.

So?

What’s wrong with that?

Isn’t that what they do in most countries?

You think there will be a Spanish National Team set up without a La Liga players inclusion?

Same with Germany, England and France.

Even Brazil.

Quota System is what Football is all about.

UEFA, FIFA, LALIGA, EPL…

Quota is a tool football administrators have used for many purposes.

In La Liga there’s a number of South American players you can’t exceed.

At present, UEFA regulations state that the 25 man squad submitted by a club participating in the Champions League must include 8 “locally-trained players”.

The Football Association recently drew up proposals that would see the number of permitted non-homegrown players in the 25-man squads reduced from 17 to 13.

Five clubs, including Manchester City and Tottenham, have the maximum 17 overseas players, while four more teams, including Chelsea and Liverpool, have 16.

That is some examples of how Football Admins have used the quota system.

Why are we crying foul in the case of Nigeria? We have decided to use the quota to ensure it also adds some value to the local league.

By this clause,  a handful of players in the league are motivated. Knowing they could get that chance to play in the Super Eagles. Knowing they can get the National Coach’s attention.

They say the best players are in Europe. That statement is a paradox. Something like the egg and chicken theory. Because some of the Nigerians playing abroad are a product of our ‘damaged’ league.

Yeah, we agree the league is damaged. This quota clause is one of the ways to repair it. Why should Rohr pick such fat check every month end if his job is simply to assemble already developed players abroad.

(Okay, that is not a simple job per se), but I think Rohr earns well enough to do the extra job of adding some professional value to our ‘damaged’ league.

It’s a mess. A job. A tough and very boring assignment, given that the league lacks the glamour and shine. However it’s a job. Rohr’s money can accomodate such trouble. And we all end up being good for it.

His consistent presence in league fixtures would definitely amount to something. I imagine being a player with passion and dream to play for my national team. And then being opportuned to play a game in front of the national coach.

“I will die there”.

Emmanuel Amunike had this same kind of clause in his Uganda contract. A more elaborate version of this clause. And he took it. He wasn’t earning as much as half of what we pay Rohr.

Rohr must stay in Nigeria. He must get his pay in Naira. Our Super Eagles players too much be paid in Naira. He must contribute to the local league as well.

We all say the league is damaged. Yet we are unwilling to do anything to repair it. Rohr has gotten his contract. You the fans of Nigerian Football also have the unwritten binding obligations to adding same value. Go watch local matches.

As we do this. We still need to tell our football lords. To not stop here. They must bring this games to the TV. It must be colorfully packaged. Our stadia must be the safest place to be in the country. And it must become functional.


			
			PV: 
			0