The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Thursday disclosed that five more people have died of COVID-19 in Kano state from the 139 confirmed cases, noting that the Federal Government is on top of the situation in the state.
Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and PTF chairman on COVID-19 who disclosed this at the PTF daily briefing on Thursday in Abuja, appealed to Nigerians who were diagnosed with the coronavirus to cooperate with the relevant agencies and stay at the Isolation Centres.
He noted that Kano is one of Nigeria’s historical cities and remained a backbone for the economy of the country. “The PTF has released equipment to be transported immediately to Kano to beef up the response. These include two oxygen concentrate and three ventilators, 280 protective gowns, 538 examination gloves, 25 boot covers, medical masks, surgical caps, and infrared thermometers.
The SGF assured the residents that the team would do everything possible to curb the spread of the disease in the state, as directed by the President, adding that the government has already established isolation and treatment centers with a holding capacity of 274 persons in Kano.
“The proposed establishment of additional facilities with a capacity of 500 persons and two sample collection centres along with six new proposed centres will provide a strong foundation for tackling the spread of the virus in the state,” he added.
Mustapha also revealed that the Nigerian Military, under its COVID-19 response plan, would establish an additional isolation center, a treatment facility, and a testing laboratory in Kano.
He noted that the PTF is confident that the lockdown directed by President Muhammadu Buhari would be effective in slowing down the spread as they continue to test, detect, isolate, trace contacts and manage COVID-19 cases.
The SGF gave an assurance that the ongoing investigation into the causes of the recent high number of deaths in Kano would be pursued to a logical conclusion.