The APC national leader Bola Tinubu just had a close shave with Covid-19, and he wouldn’t have known it but for the smart thinking by the NCDC
In a statement issued by his media office, Tinubu, 68, said he took the Covid-19 test following the death of his Chief Security Officer Lateef Raheem .
“NCDC medics took the wise precaution of taking samples from his body for testing to actually determine the cause of death,” he said.
“Today, the test results are back. The samples tested positive for Covid-19.”
Following that revelation, Tinubu, his wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, and all their aides took COVID-19 tests Saturday, April 25.
According to the statement, the test results for both Asiwaju and Senator TInubu were negative.
“The result for one aide is positive, the rest of the staff were negative. The one staff member has been isolated in accordance with NCDC guidelines. Further contact tracing and COVID-19 tests are being conducted by the NCDC with regards to the relatives and possible contacts of that staff member.”
He stressed that openness and transparency must be observed if we are to defeat this disease.
”There is no house immune to its entry. Contracting the virus should not bring social or moral stigma any more than contracting malaria or a common cold.
“We cannot overcome this challenge by acting like it does not exist or by trying to conceal that someone may have it due to social shame. The culture of denial is counterproductive and will do great harm in our current situation.
“We must do all we can to contain the spread of the virus and to treat those of us who have been hit by it.
“As you go about your day, we know you must find daily sustenance. Yet, please continue to do all you can to maintain social distance and to take all other public health measures to protect yourself and others. In this way, we all may contribute to halting the spread of this dangerous virus.
The APC Chieftain while warning that COVID-19 is real and a present threat revealed that one of his aides tested positive.
Tinubu warned those who discount it or claim it is a fabrication are doing a grave and dangerous disservice to the public well-being, and had a word for those who stigmatise people who may have been stricken by the virus.
“We cannot defeat this health menace through ignorance or by shaming one another. We can only beat it through transparency, knowledge and compassion. This, we have learned first-hand.”