Liverpool as a club could have endured one of the fiercest rivalry with Manchester United, but the Red Devils fans have every reason to be thankful to Jurgen Klopp.
The German tactician gave his keenest opinion about Bruno Fernandes who would eventually go to become one of Manchester United’s brightest signing since his transfer from Sporting CP to Old Trafford last January.
National Daily gathered that Jurgen Klopp had feared Bruno Fernandes would make Manchester United stronger after seeing him in action during pre-season.
The Reds boss true assertion may have served as a catalyst that propelled United’s eventual recruitment of one of their widely speculated transfer interests in the recent time.
Jurgen Klopp and Liverpool faced off against Fernandes and his former side Sporting Lisbon at the New York Yankee Stadium before the current campaign got underway. and Fernandes was sensational in the friendly, netting the opener before turning provider to salvage a draw after Liverpool came from behind to go 2-1 ahead.
At the time the Portugal international was on Manchester United’s radar, but the Old Trafford club wouldn’t land him until January 2020.
Klopp took his opportunity to speak to the midfielder following the match.
“Good game. You’ve been good,” Klopp told Fernandes. “Congratulations for the great game. You’re a top player.”
The Liverpool boss then went on to speak about Fernandes in his press conference, where he predicted the midfielder would make the Red Devils a force to be reckoned with.
“If he [joins Manchester United] then we will face him,” said Klopp.
“He’s obviously a really good player,” Klopp said. “United have already a few really good players, so that will probably make them stronger.
Manchester United eventually got their man in January, parting with £47million to make the transfer happen.
True to Klopp’s prediction, the Portuguese midfielder has long become an instant hit at Old Trafford where he managed to help United to an unbeaten 11 games in all competitions since his arrival.
This development has left United fans strangely appreciating one of their great rivals in Jurgen Kloop.