By Richard Adeniyi 




The Tin Can Island Port Command of the Nigeria Customs Service said it generated a total of N31.2 billion in March 2020.


Controller of the command, Comptroller Musa Abdullahi, who disclosed this in a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, Uche Ejesieme, in Lagos on Wednesday said the sum is N5.2 billion higher than N25.9 billion collected during the same period in 2019.
According to Ejesieme, part of the Controller’s strategy which led to the increase in revenue generation is the mobilisation of critical stakeholders through series of roundtables and consultations towards ensuring that trade facilitation is given a boost in line with global best practices.
He said: “The customs Area Controller at those parleys solicited the support of all parties in the trade value chain, particularly on the issue of compliance with the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the need to adhere strictly.
“Further to this is the removal of all manner of bureaucratic bottlenecks and obstacles which might hinder access to information and intervention in critical areas. This is exemplified in the open door policy of the Area Controller as well as establishment of trade facilitation and Dispute Resolution Platforms for expeditious resolution of disputes arising from the various transactions.
“We are optimistic that all things being equal, the operational templates that have been put in place by the Area Controller will surely lead to monumental revenue collection.
On the coronavirus pandemic, Uche said the command began sensitisation campaign since the news of the outbreak of the disease in Wuhan, China in November 2019 following a circular from Customs headquarters which compelled customs commands to commence awareness and education on ways of containing the virus.
He said, “Following the report of the index case in Nigeria, the command began even more intensive and aggressive campaign, with the visit by the Zonal medical personnel of the service, led by Dr Bello, in collaboration with our resident medical personnel. Lectures were delivered on the safest measures which officers and stakeholders should adopt to keep safe.
“Participants were also advised to always maintain social distancing, use of latex gloves, sanitizers and regular hand washing amongst other safety measures.
“Beyond these, the Controller directed the erection of signage at strategic places in the command that conveyed very salient information to stakeholders on additional measures we have adopted to ensure the safety and health of the employees and other stakeholder.
 





			
			PV: 
			0