Lagos State Government has disowned a list of hospitals and health facilities being circulated in the social media to be infested by coronavirus in the State.
The Executive Secretary, Lagos Health Facility and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA), Dr. Abiola Idowu, refuted that the list was released by the Ministry of Health.
The Executive Secretary declared: “This is the handiwork of mischief makers and fake news merchant who are bent on causing panic in the community and eroding the success recorded in the battle against COVID19.
“I, therefore, urge residents to disregard the list in its entirety and rely solely on the Ministry of Health and HEFAMAA for information on the operation of health facilities and management of COVID19 cases especially at this critical time.”
Dr. Idowu acknowledged that hospitals could admit or treat coronavirus patients unknowingly. She said that when such occur, the hospital will be shut down temporarily for decontamination while the staff would be trained on Infection, Prevention and Control, thereafter the hospital is safe to resume normal operations.
The Executive Secretary appealed:: “We need people to desist from stigmatizing such facilities, they are only closed for decontamination and once that has been done as well as other necessary protocols, the facility is safe to offer services to the public.’’
Dr. Idowu directed all hospitals operating in Lagos to adhere strictly to prescriptions on Infection Prevention and Control, maintain high degree of suspicion for #COVID19 and adhere strictly to laid down protocols for COVID19 suspicion. She indicated that IPC will help reduce human-to-human transmission and secondary infections among close contacts and health care workers.
Some tertiary hospital were listed to have been shut down in Lagos by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) over cases of corona virus infection. The hospital facilities were to be decontaminated within the period of the shut down, while staff or anyone that visited the facilities recently were ordered to go  for corona virus test.
Verdic Lifecare Hospital had reportedly issued a statement that a patient discharged from its facilities later tested positive to coronavirus. The management, therefore, shut down for decontamination of the premises while staff and recent patients and visitors were advised to go for urgent coronavirus test.  a few other tertiary hospitals were later listed.




ReplyReply allForward