Global apprehension over the outbreak of coronavirus and the association perturbation over China’s misinformation of other countries of the world on the outbreak at the early stage has continued to dominate international inquiries and discourse on the coronavirus pandemic that has threatened human race on earth. The discourses and inquiries have been eliciting revelations of perceived hidden information by China.
Fox News had disclosed that there is increasing confidence that the outbreak of coronavirus may have originated from a Wuhan laboratory, not necessarily as a bioweapon but as part of China’s plot to prove that its capacity to identify and combat viruses are equal to or greater than the capabilities of the United States. This is believed to be revealed by multiple sources who were briefed on the details of early actions by China’s government and seen relevant materials.
One of the sources was cited to have acknowledged that this may be the “costliest government cover-up of all time.”
The sources were said to have expressed the belief that the initial transmission of the virus – a naturally occurring strain that was being studied there – was bat-to-human and that “patient zero” worked at the laboratory, then went into the population in Wuhan.
The sources were further disclosed to have said that “increasing confidence” comes from classified and open-source documents and evidence.
It was indicated that all the sources agreed on the extensive cover-up of data and information about COVID-19 orchestrated by the Chinese government.
US President Donald Trump had at coronavirus press briefing on Wednesday remarked: “More and more we’re hearing the story…we are doing a very thorough examination of this horrible situation.”
Documents were said to have exposed details of early efforts by doctors at the laboratory and early efforts at containment. It was also revealed that the Wuhan wet market initially identified as a possible point of origin never sold bats. The sources had argued that blaming the wet market was an effort by China to deflect blame from the laboratory, along with the country’s propaganda efforts targeting the U.S. and Italy, Fox News had indicated.
Also, the United Kingdom (UK) had chided China over misinformation on coronavirus early stage of outbreak; thus, misleading countries of the world from timely actions to prevention its spread across their international borders.
Japan further took on the World Health Organisation (WHO) which was perceived to be conspiring with China on misinformation on the coronavirus pandemic.
Apparently, US or Trump is not alone on the issue. There is pressure on the British Prime Minister to sue China for economic losses caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.

			
			PV: 
			0