Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, President of the Loveworld inc., Christ Embassy Ministry, will be conducting Special Sunday Easter Service via the information superhighway at 6.00pm Nigerians time to be broadcasted live by over 800 Television and Radio Stations across the world. All the stations have confirmed to hook up to the Service all over the world.
A similar service was held recently where over 3 billion people all over the world participated in the prayer service conducted by the Man of God via the information superhighway network.
About 22 television stations will be making live telecast of the Special Service in Nigeria.
The service being conducted through infotech complies with the global directives on social spacing and other preventive measures by the government and international institutions to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 in Nigeria and across the world.
This Sunday’s service is organized in such a way that the Man of God will be touching the lives of over 3 billion worshippers directly in their homes from their various locations across the world.
The earlier service where the Ministry held global prayer against COVID-19 was a huge success. Participate was massive across the world.  This Sunday Special Easter Service is not expected to be any different.
The  TV stations that will be making live broadcast of the Special Easter Sunday Service with Pastor Chris at 6.00pm in Nigeria include:

NTA Networks
SILVER BIRD Networks
Galaxy TV Networks
Super Screen TV
LTV Lagos
TVC
MITV
DBS Asaba
Pathway TV PH
ND TV Yenegua
EBBS Enugu
EBS Benin
RSTV PH
ITV Abuja
BRTV Borno
DSRC
TV Taraba
HI IMPACT TV
BCA
SLBC
CLOVEWORLD
CRBC

The broadcasting stations have been chosen in such manner to ensure no one is left out of the anointing and blessings of God that flow from the Pastor. While over 800 TV and Radio Stations around the world have confirmed to hook up on the Sunday Service at  6.00pm GMT +1, 1.00pm EST, for the Special Easter Sunday Service with Pastor Chris, participation opportunities have been expanded to several social media platforms. Accordingly, the overall Global Directory of all the Ministry Websites, Apps, Social Media Sites, Satellite and Terrestrial TV Stations and Radio Stations that will live stream or broadcast the Special Easter Sunday Service are published on the link given below:
https://christembassy.org/special-easter-sunday-service-with-pastor-chris/
Brethren are expected to share the link with others  and encourage them to share it with loved ones and all their contacts, so they can select the most convenient way to participate in the service.
 

			
			PV: 
			0