Offers free test, treatment for COVID-19 patients

Lagos State Government has commenced active search for coronavirus cases in the state. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at a media briefing after the State Security Council meeting on Tuesday, disclosed that in the last one week, Lagos had started an active search for cases in communities across the State, with the aim to disrupt cases of community transmission. He also said that the state government offers free test and treatment to coronavirus carriers.
The governor said that Lagos had witnessed a trend of community transmission in the number of recently confirmed cases, adding that the need to identify and manage cases was imperative, given the State’s population density. He sensitized residents of Lagos State on the proposed visitation to homes for medical surveys in detecting coronavirus cases, appealing for cooperation of the people.
“It will not be unexpected for the residents to be visited by a team from the Lagos State Ministry of Health. “Please give them accurate information in response to the questions they may ask, which will be related to your health and travel history. Note that they will not ask you for any money.
“COVID-19 testing and treatment is free and will remain so. Do not allow anybody into your home without seeing valid identification and a letter from the Local Government Area,” Governor Sanwo-Olu stated.
Sanwo-Olu shared the successes recorded in the medical palliative introduced by the State Government earlier in the month, disclosing that the State footed the medical bills of over 18,000 people who accessed free medical services at all 67 Grade “A” primary health and secondary healthcare centres.
The governor further said that Lagos recorded over 600 childbirths, of which the costs were free of charge.
Governor Sanwo-Olu appealed for calm among residents, saying the additional 14 days extension would afford the frontline health workers to ramp up contact identification, testing, isolation and admission of suspected and confirmed cases.


			
			PV: 
			0