Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Wednesday revealed that the state will commence gradual easing of the lockdown and reopening of the economy from May 4 in accordance with the broadcast of President Muhammadu Buhari. The governor maintained that Lagos State will adopt Controlled Easing Phase framework in ending the lockdown and re-opening offices and businesses in the state.
Governor Sanwo-Olu in a state broadcast on Wednesday declared: “From May 4, 2020, businesses are allowed to operate within a framework that we call a “Controlled Easing Phase”. Let it be clear that this is not a full reopening of the economy. It is a gradual and controlled easing of the lockdown.
The governor further ordered that offices and businesses will operate for a period of six hours and workers must comply with the curfew imposed by the president which commences daily from 8.00pm. governor Sanwo-Olu, ther3fore, directed offices and businesses to operate between 9.00am and 3.00pm daily toll further notice.
“We will continue to monitor the public health situation; the economic impact of the lockdown and always adjust our responses accordingly.
“Companies that choose to operate within this Controlled Easing Phase are to operate between 9am and 3pm; and are also directed to operate at a maximum of 60% of their staff capacity.”
The governor also encouraged people who can work from home to continue do so to reduce the number of workers in office or moving out. He insisted on zero crowding and social distancing at workplaces.
Governor Sanwo-Olu also approved that banks can commence full, operation but must within the restricted six hours daily business activities and ensure decontamination of offices and ATM machines.
“… as many of us that can continue to work online and remotely from the office, please let us do so. Online and Work-from-Home arrangements are highly encouraged to continue as much as is practicable.”
“We understand the important roles Banks and Financial Institutions play in our economy, and for this reason they are highly encouraged to open their branches and offer their full complement of services to the general public.
“They are, however, to observe the operational working hours of
9am to 3pm.
“Very important for me to mention is that these Banks are also to ensure regular cleaning and decontamination of the various ATM machines.”
Governor Sanwo-Olu directed that institutions operating within the Controlled Easing Phase, the following measures and directives must be strictly adhered to:
a. All buildings are to ensure a 2-meter distancing measure is maintained in all common areas; and at all service and customer facing desks.
b. All buildings are to maintain a 60% occupancy limit in all office rooms within the building; and no more than 50% of the elevator capacity in any building shall be utilized.
c. Businesses/Companies are encouraged to make adequate arrangement for the transportation of their staff to their places of work to reduce the risk of contagion and exposure while traveling on public transportation.
d. Companies transporting their staff to work in their private transportation arrangements shall be expected to strictly adhere to the principles of social distancing; as well as enjoin their staff to practise very high levels of hand and personal hygiene.
e. Hand sanitizers and/or wash basins must be made available at all entry points, and temperature checks must be carried out upon entry into the work premises.
The governor encouraged Whistleblowers to report companies which flout these directives; he added that whistleblower channels will be duly communicated to the public. “Whistleblowers are guaranteed full protection; their identities will be kept strictly confidential,” Sanwo-Olu assured.