By Esther Egbe
Former Super Eagles and Enugu  Rangers  star player,  Jude Igho Otegheri is keeping sealed lips on the reasons behind his impending divorce from Nigerian sprinter, Blessing Okagbare, just six years after they tied the knot in Sapele, Delta State things have fallen apart, the centre can no longer hold and the union has crumpled like a pack of cards,National Daily chatted Otegheri  who confirmed the news.
Otegheri confirmed that Okagbare has filed for divorce, but he refused to elaborate on reasons behind her move, as he simply blamed her for taking the unexpected step and then going ahead to spread the news by talking about it at every point available to her.
This development comes at the height of reports that the former Super Eagles’ invitee and his wife are estranged from each other, after several years of courtship saw the childhood friends and fellow-Sapele-bred sports stars enjoy a stint of matrimonial bliss imploded into crises.
Otegheri had a short stint playing professional football abroad, after starring on the domestic front with Wikki Tourist of Bauchi, Rangers International of Enugu, Dolphins of Port Harcourt and Heartland of Owerri.
He began his career with Wikki in 2004 before transferring to join Rangers in The Coal City, where he spent two years, after which he signed with Garden City outfit, Dolphins in 2007 and later joined Heartland in the Imo State capital.
He was in Owerri until January 22, 2009, when he moved to Beitar Jerusalem of Israel, but was released on February 1, 2009 and returned to Heartland, six years after he got his Super Eagles’ debut in a friendly against Costa Rica on February 2, 2003, and he was off the spotlight until his celebrated marriage to Okagbare at an elaborate wedding in Sapele, Delta State.
The wedding in November 2014 was well attended by family, friends, fans, personalities and the media, with several talking points and media posts following, after which they soon relocated to the United States of America together; but they are now set to separate, after Okagbare raised a line of allegations bordering on infidelity, laziness and other irreconcilable differences.
National Daily gathered that it was Okagbare who initiated the ongoing divorce process, following her confession of long-standing rows between her and her hubby, leaving a face-off erupting among their respective families and the ex-footballer’s parents reportedly asking for a refund of the bride price they paid during the traditional rites six years ago in Sapele.
Otegheri is staying coy and opted for a spiritually inclined angle in his response, as he simply said: “She has said all the stories. I don’t have anything to say. I leave everything to God.

			
			PV: 
			0