Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta state and several others have commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari over the death of his Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari on Friday night.
In a message on Saturday, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said his wife and himself expressed their sympathies to the President, Mrs. Kulu Kyari, the children, and members of the family on the passing of Kyari, praying that the Lord comfort and be with the families.
In another separate message, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta also expressed sadness on the passing away of Mallam Kyari.
The Governor said he was pained by the fact that the elder statesman died of the COVID-19.
In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika on Saturday in Asaba, the governor said that Kyari’s death was a huge loss to the Presidency and entire nation, considering his strategic role in the current administration.
He commiserated with the family, President Buhari and the entire Presidency, and urged them to be consoled by the legacies of integrity and capacity exhibited by the elder Statesman felled by the dreaded virus.
Okowa assured the President and the entire Kyari family of the support and prayers of his family, Delta Government and people of the state at this trying period.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with his family, President Buhari and entire Presidency that the soul of the deceased repose peacefully and the family given the fortitude to bear his demise,” he said.
Also, the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq,  said she was shocked and saddened by the death of the Chief of Staff to the President, with whom she worked closely even prior to her appointment as Minister of the Federal Republic.
“He was a strong pillar leading the staff who work closely with the President, and contributed in coordinating the activities of the various Ministries and agencies for the efficient administration of the country,” the Minister noted.
“May Malam Abba Kyari rest in peace and bless his immediate and larger family of Nigerians with the courage to bear his irreparable loss,” she said.

 

			
			PV: 
			0