A popular musician, Afeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley, has apologized to Lagos State government, volunteering to join the campaign against the spread of coronavirus in the state. He promised a free audio-visual to be published on his social media platforms on the campaign against coronavirus, including enlightenment of the protective measures the government and international organizations have prescribed.
Naira Marley is being prosecuted by the Lagos State government for disobeying the stay at home order of the government and attending the birthday party at the residence of Funke Akindele. The Lagos State government had contemplated withdrawing the suit but under certain conditions.
Naira Marley at the Magistrate Court on Thursday presented a letter of undertaking addressed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.
The letter of undertaking was part of the conditions for the withdrawal of the suit of breaching the social distancing directive by Lagos State government.
Chief Magistrate Yewande Aje-Afunwa on receiving the letter, consented to the withdrawal of the case.
She further consented to the withdrawal of the charge against Naira Marley’s co-defendants Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Babatunde Gbadamosi, and his wife, Folasade.
Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in Lagos State, Yhaqub Oshoala, had on Wednesday notified the Magistrate that Naira Marley and Gbadamosis had accepted  to make undertaken to comply with all of the State’s conditions for withdrawal of the prosecution.
Magistrate Aje-Afunwa then directed the three defendants to comply with the conditions and report back their readiness for compliance to the court on Thursday.
Naira Marley declared he has “undertaken to work with the government to tackle the COVID 19 pandemic.”
Lagos State government had in the negotiations to withdraw the case gave conditions that those on trial have to individually make personal apology to President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Sanwo-Olu; then, make undertaking to comply with the COVID-19 regulations, and go into self-isolation for the next 14 days.
Defence counsel, Olawale Akoni (SAN) for Gbadamosi; Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa (SAN) for Mrs. Gbadamosi; and Miss Damilola Ayinde-Marshal for Naira Marley, confirmed the statement.
Magistrate Aje-Afunwa delivering judgment  stated: “Upon the oral application made by the Director of Public Prosecutions on behalf of the Attorney-General of Lagos State pursuant to Sections 71 and 73 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos State (ACJL) and pursuant to the fact that the three defendants have complied with conditions for the withdrawal of the charge, the unchallenged application for withdrawal of the charge, leave is hereby granted to the Attorney-General of Lagos to withdraw the charge.
“The three defendants are hereby discharged.”


			
			PV: 
			0