(FILES) In this file photo taken on May 8, 2018 the Uber logo is seen at the second annual Uber Elevate Summit at the Skirball Center in Los Angeles, California. - Uber is seeking to raise some $10 billion in what would be the largest stock offering of the year, with details coming this week, the Wall Street Journal reported on April 10, 2019. The global ride-hailing giant is seeking a valuation close to $100 billion -- an impressive figure but below some earlier estimates amid an ebbing of enthusiasm on growth and profitability, the report said. (Photo by Robyn Beck / AFP)
        
 


Multinational ride-hailing and delivery company, Uber Technologies, says it will be writing down about $2 billion worth of investments after the devastating impact of the coronavirus disease globally.
It could be recalled that about two weeks ago, Uber suspended its operation in Nigeria as a result of the lockdown and restrictions that were announced by both the Federal Government and some State Governments.
According to a monitored report from Bloomberg, Uber said that it expects to write down its minority stake of between $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion in some of its investments.
It should be noted that the ride-hailing company has investments in various ride-hailing and food delivery businesses around the world. In fact, its combined stake in China’s Didi Chuxing and Southeast Grab was about $10.3 billion at the end of 2019.
Although Uber did not identify the investments that will be affected by this write-down, it however, tried to reduce the impact of the coronavirus disease on its revenue by creating a financial assistance program for its drivers and delivery agents.
Ride-hailing firms have been hard hit by the global lockdowns and restrictions, which were enforced as part of measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Rides in some of the hardest-hit cities have fallen by as much as 70%.
Uber lay off employees, Uber cut operation cost, Uber drivers protest, Uber shares, Uber list on New York Stock Exchange, Uber first day of trading on NYSE, Uber, Ride-hailing companies in Nigeria, Should Nigeria follow suit as

			
			PV: 
			0