In his bid to ameliorate the attendant hardship the lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic brought on Lagos populace, Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. (Dr) Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa has kept faith with his earlier promise  regarding ensuring the welfare of Lagosians through this period.

Obasa who had earlier distributed food packages containing rice, water, noodles and basic cooking ingredients as well as safety kits to Lagosians has taken his welfare programme a step further by ensuring the provision of breakfast bread to Lagosians especially across zones in Agege.

It will be recalled that over 26,000 loaves of bread were distributed to vulnerable Lagosians in Agege and across the Lagos West Senatorial District on Saturday, 4th of April to kick start the relief package scheme.


In continuation of this compassionate effort of the Speaker, several thousand  loaves of bread have again been distributed within Agege, Orile-Agege and other zones within the area as a way of providing breakfast relief for the people.

This is in fulfillment of Obasa’s earlier promise that, ‘Obasa Breakfast Bread’ will continue to be a consistent effort of his to reduce the biting effect of  attendant hunger caused by the lockdown on the people as the distribution will continue throughout this period between the hours of 7:00am to 9:00am at regular day intervals.

“We understand that this lockdown may have its effect on the people, especially the vulnerable.

“However, it is important that we find a way to help each other through this period by providing food, which is the basic need for the survival of man.

“This initiative will continue for the period of this lockdown, as we target feeding the vulnerable.” Obasa said.

Rt. Hon. (Dr) Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa has also continued to urge everyone to take precautions in this period, avoid panic and all manner of negative reports that could spark controversy and panic.

Mr. Speaker remains positive about the welfare of the people of Agege, Orile-Agege, Lagos West and Lagos at large as he insists that together, we will defeat this scourge.



			
			PV: 
			0