The fifth generation (5G) telecommunication technology being rolled out is generating phobia and disquiet over its threatening inherent health hazards on human race across the world. While some potent industrial bourgeoisie are believed to have invested huge funds on the 5G radio frequency radiation and are afraid to lose their investment, scientists and medical professionals are questioning the health threat of the telecommunication innovation and strongly advocating that countries should not give approval for the installation of 5G in their juridical frontiers.
Apparently, 5G is generating global concerns over opportunities for wealth creation and profit maximization by the investors and the health risk of citizens, the end users and potential victims of infections and death, in various countries of the world. The telecommunications industry has gone through rapid innovations from 2G to 3G and the recently popularized 4G, then, the current threatening 5G. they are aimed towards speedy internet transmissions and wider application usages.
Over 180 scientists and medical doctors from 36 countries have cautioned the European Union (EU) of the danger of 5G. the danger, they warned will cause high exposure to electromagnetic radiation. The scientists insist countries must suspend or withhold approval for installation of 5G except independent task force conduct research to evaluate the health consequences of humans and environment.
The scientists and medical professionals had declared: “We, the undersigned scientists, recommend a moratorium on the roll-out of the fifth generation (5G) for telecommunication until potential hazards for human health and the environment have been fully investigated by scientists independent from industry. 5G will substantially increase exposure to radio frequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMF) on top of the 2G, 3G, 4G, WiFi etc. for telecommunications already in place. RF-EMF has been proven to be harmful for humans and the environment.”
The consequences of 5G in Nigeria can only be imagined with the high usage of internet facilities for social media activities even in private homes, beside offices and public utilities. The Nigerian government does not appear to be conscious of the global reservations on 5G installation.
The scientists pointed out that the 5G network expansion is intended to facilitate faster wireless transmission of larger amounts of data. The network, they said, requires the installation of many more antennas in the cities. The scientists, therefore, contended the no one is escaping the potentially harmful effects of radiation any longer. “After all, we are already exposed to 2G, 3G, 4G and Wi-Fi radiation,” they said.
One of the scientists, Dr. L. Hardell, Professor of Oncology at Örebro University in Sweden, declared: “The telecom industry is trying to roll out technology that may have very real, unintended harmful consequences. Scientific studies, both recently and over many years, have identified harmful effects on health when testing wireless products under realistic conditions.
“We are very concerned that the increase in radiation exposure by 5G leads to damage that cannot be reversed”.
Hardell maintained: “The fifth generation (5G) of radio frequency radiation is now being developed. This is done without dosimetric determination or study of the possible health effects.”
He decried that  innovators only project in particular all the possibilities that the technology promises to offer, such as the self-propelled car and Internet of Things (IoT); but lamented that ordinary people are not informed of conflicting opinions about this technological development.


			
			PV: 
			0