The Oro cultural group has joined the various vigilante groups to secure border communities from armed robbers in Lagos. The troubled communities currently  under siege of armed robbers during the coronavirus lockdown imposed by President Muhammadu Buhari in the past two weeks, has received minimal intervention of the Police.

Thus, residents of the border communities have organised themselves into groups keeping vigil at night in their neighbourhood waiting for the robbers who rob homes in groups of 50 members and above.

The youths, men, women, including girls, get armed with whatever arm is at their disposal, burn tyres, waiting for the enemies of the society.

Some youths have taken up the challenge to secure the communities. They are not seeing themselves different from the gang robbers identified to be in their age brackets. They mobilise themselves in large groups of 40, 50 abd above moving from one street to the other, to protect their neighbourhood.

The Oro cultural group know to operate at night when people are indoors, has also taken to the streets, moving from one spot to the other in their traditional practice. The Oro group also identifies with youths on the streets during procession.


Scenes of burn tyres
Border communities of Agbado, Sango, Otta, Ajuwon, Fagba, Abule Egba, including inward lands of Agege, Iyana Ipaja and others, are being ravaged by armed robbers.

The robbers started with breaking shops and stealing food stuffs. The shops are beginning to run out of stock because of the lockdown. The robbers are shifting targets to residential homes.

Meanwhile, the Oro group now move into streets not being part of their practice in the past, relating with the vigilant youths on alert.

The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has deployed a Special Police Squad to reclaim the border communities in Lagos and Ogun from the ravaging armed robbers. The presence of the squad was noticed at Alagbole and Akute on Monday in Ogun State.

			
			PV: 
			0