Manchester United made a shock minute loan transfer for Odion Ighalo on the deadline day.
The Nigerian international has been endeared to United fans when he instantly hit the ground running scoring four goals in eight matches in all competitions. This feat has triggered boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to hint on a possible permanent transfer for the 30 year old.
Meanwhile, with Ighalo’s loan deal set expire come the original end of the 2019/2020 season in May, there have been speculations over his transfer position amidst the mega fresh contract of £400,000-per-week his parent Chinese Super League club Shanghai Shenhua  is reportedly offering him.
National Daily can confirm that the former Nigerian international forward has communicated his desire to turn his loan spell at the Old Trafford club into a permanent move to the delight of United fans.
Going by the above, it then therefore suggests that the Red Devils will likely sign him on a permanent basis for a fee in the region of £15million.
Ighalo has expressed his desires to extend his loan into a permanent one
Ighalo speaking from his home due to the coronavirus lockdown expressed his desire to extend his United spell.
“I am inspired by a lot of things at United,”
“Seeing the club from the outside you don’t know how big it is. But when you are inside you know how big the club is.
“I am inspired by the way the club is structured, I am inspired by the direction of the club.
“I am inspired by the development of the young players and how they are coming through from the grassroots to the first-team.”
United’s deadline-day move for Ighalo, as cover for the injured Marcus Rashford, was widely regarded as an act of desperation by the club.
Ighalo vindicated the Red Devils’ decision to bring him to Old Trafford especially when many had initially considered that move as a desperate one by club by making an immediate impact to Manchester United games.
The former Watford striker warmed United fans heart when he earlier disclosed his personality when he was asked to name his qualities.
“Well, many people would say ‘he is a gentle guy but inside he is a beast’.
“I am a fighter, I never give up, I go for what I believe I can achieve and I give my best, 100 per cent.
“No matter the outcome of the game, win or lose, I always give 100 per cent from the beginning.
“With hard work and determination, you can achieve what you want in life. Talent is not enough in football.
“When you have talent and you don’t work, it is not enough. Put in the hard work and I think you will have what it takes to achieve your dream.”








			
			PV: 
			0