The Generalisimo of Epe Kingdom, Chief Lanre Razak has distributed 700 units of 5kg bags of rice and cash gifts to people through their Committee Development Centres (CDC) and Community Development Association (CDA )in Epe community, to cushion the effect of the lockdown occasioned by the need to battle COVID-19 pandemic in the state.
While making the official presentation of the emergency relief package to the people, Chief Razak urged other well meaning Nigerians and especially Lagosians to follow suit, noting that as the Ramadan fasting period begins more of such good gestures should be extended to the less privileged so as to help them pull through this global health crisis.

In his words,”we want to thank the Federal government especially the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari for his love for this country,for his believe in this country,for his commitment for the lives and properties of Nigerians to remain safe.

And that is why we ought to obey the directive of the President on the issue of COVID-19 pandemic,to keep social distance, to ensure that we do not for any reason disobey the rules and the protocols of this COVID-19.

Nigeria we are developing country,those who are developed and scientifically above us and advanced than us, America recorded a lot of casualties, a lot of people are dying there.

Same goes for Britain, Italy and Spain a lot of people have died there, we believe in being our brothers keeper, we believe that we should be very careful and that we will be safe and to be safe is to ensure the social distance is complied with.

It’s to ensure you wash your hands regularly, to ensure that you do what is necessary,you don’t get crowded together.

Ensure that you remain at home don’t go around, as there is nothing to show you that the next person is not infected by Coronavirus and you don’t want to died, sustain this short period so that we can live longer and be useful to our family and contribute our quota to our community.

My appeal to you is to stay at home and abide by the COVID-19 protocol and to support government’s effort, I am giving this palliatives.

I’m giving rice and cash donations to the communities in Epe division, I am giving them through the CDA and CDC, through the mosques, through the churches and I’m through this association’s so that everybody is benefitting from this gesture.

Please stay today at home,stay safe so that we can enjoy the good things the government will do to us at the end of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Chief Razak reiterated the need for all hands to be on deck, especially the well-to-do in the society.

“My advise to those who are blessed is to extend those good gestures to those who have none,the less privileged, so that they can so that they can sustain the stay at home order because if they don’t have food,they may be tempted to move around.

“And that is against the COVID-19 protocol,for us to be able to go through it and remain safe is to obey that protocol.

“But there is this need,those asked to stay at home cannot remain for too long if there is no food. Those who have should give to them so that they can live.

“Lagos state government alone, nor the federal government cannot give food to over 200 million Nigerians, so if you are blessed please extend it to others, so that we can be happy at the end of the day, we can still see many of us and may God continue to safe us.

He added that aside orthodox medicine, Nigerians can also give local solution a trail.

“Yes I support the proposal of getting a local solution to this pandemic, before the orthodox medicine,there are medicines.

They have introduced drinking of hot water three times a day, that the virus cannot withstand heat, let’s  do it, some suggest we drink ginger,garlic and lime three times a day, let’s  do it, drinking tea three times a day, let’s do all these as long as they are not poisonous.

“Let’s  try it and once you are out of it you thank God, right now when you consider the number of Doctors for Nigerians, the ratio is so negligible, so if there are local solutions to  it why not give it a try and get out of it.

Some of the beneficiaries of the largesse extended to the communities by Chief Razak could not hide their feelings, following the timely distribution of the relief packages, even as the State Governors team up to extend the lockdown period.

Mrs Adenike Ogunkola cited the good deeds of Chief Lanre Razak which she said predates COVID-19 emergence.

Ogunkola said, ” this happens to be the second phase of the palliatives by Chief Lanre Razak and his good gestures predates COVID-19, he gives the less privileged food and money often.

According another beneficiary it is more like an annual practice to Chief Razak, especially during Ramadan, his charity is unmatched.

He also urged the Federal government to pay Nigerian citizens through their BVN with banks as done in other climes.