Experts in the country have debunked claims that consumption of alcohol may prevent an individual from contracting the dreaded coronavirus disease.
In a public lecture titled “Covid 19: What You Need to Know and How to Cope” moderated by the Acting Provost, Lagos State University College of Medicine, Prof. Biodun Adewuya, with a Professor of Public Health, Prof. Olumuyiwa Odusanya and Public Mental Health Expert, Dr. Bolanle Ola, as Speakers, the experts also added there is no proof yet that antioxidants, such as Vitamin C, garlic and lemon could cure the infection.
Prof. Odusanya in his lecture reiterated that the most effective way to prevent contracting the Coronavirus disease remains regular washing of hands with soap and water, use of alcohol based sanitizers, maintaining social distancing and avoiding large gatherings of people, refuting claims that the disease can be cured by taking chloroquine or antioxidants such as garlic, ginger, lemon and vitamin C as there remains no known cure of the disease.
The former Provost of LASUCOM and Director, Directorate of Research Management and Innovation, further listed three pillars of treatment of the virus: “the three known pillars of treatment of the virus are rehydration, medicines for fever, and medicines to prevent secondary bacterial infection”; he said, adding that “the virus can be spread through droplets, fomites and touching of contaminated surfaces.” He listed dry cough, tiredness, fatigue, shortness of breath, fever, sore throat and inability to smell things properly as common symptoms of the disease.
On his part, the second speaker, Dr. Bolanle Ola, who spoke on “Coping with Covid-19” urged that attention should be paid to the psychological well-being of individuals as they seek to cope with the pandemic.
In his words, “managing pandemic with less attention to psychological factors will lead to disaster. Success in fighting Covid-19 is hinged on psychological preparedness.
He advised participants to take care of their body by eating healthy, well-balanced meals, doing regular exercises, and getting plenty of sleep; connect virtually with others by regularly talking to trusted people about their concerns; taking regular breaks from activities; and making time to unwind by doing interesting activities.
He added that contrary to popular misconception, consuming alcohol to prevent coronavirus portends danger to the individual.
“It is not true that alcohol prevents someone from contracting coronavirus. Avoid alcohol consumption, it’s risky and makes you violent”, he said.