calls for prayers against COVID-19 as citizens celebrate Easter



By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Action Democratic Party (ADP), has called on all Nigerians to be hopeful and prayerful,urging christians to use this year’s Easter celebration to seek the face of God almighty in prayers against Corona Virus.

ADP said, despite the pandemic, which is now a major source of concern globally, Nigerians must stand stronger together in love and unity, as this time will surely be over soon, stressing that, rather than panic and fear, citizens should be hopeful, as no pandemic can outlast the human race.

In a statement made available to journalist on Sunday by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Prince Adelaja Adeoye, the party stated that the pandemic is a phase of live that will soon pass away, so Nigerians should rather persevere.

“This is the time, all Nigerians must eschew every forms of rancor and stand together in unity, as the only way the nation can move forward is when both the government and citizens comes together in unity and love, praying that all the troubles in the land, caused by the Corona Virus pandemic becomes a thing of the past.

The pandemic is a major obstacle to the growth of the Nation’s socio-political and economic fortune, as we all know, no country can stand on its feat if a pandemic stays for too long.

There will be an adverse effect, and this is the main reason every citizens must turn to God in prayers at this Easter and beyond. We need to reclaim our lives, economy and continue from a point of strength again.

 ” We greet all Nigerians during this Easter celebration, it is our prayer that, God almighty will restore peace, unity and progress to our Nation again, and help us end the ravaging and increasing rate of Corona Virus in the land”.

“May the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ brings us eternal peace”.

The party, however urges the Federal and State governments, to provide adequate palliatives for vulnerable Nigerians, and work more on how the economy can be rejuvenated within a short while.

Adelaja added that, prolonged shutdown will have adverse effects on the livelihood of citizens and various public and private business interests.

ADP however, counseled all Nigerians that, while they celebrate this year’s Easter, they should minimize their movement, avoid large gatherings, and also adhere to all the precautionary measures issued by National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), such as washing their hands regularly with soap, alcoholic based hand sanitizer, maintaining social distancing, praying that God will protect and preserve them.





			
			PV: 
			0