The heightened frenzy COVID-19 has put the world in has forced governmental bodies and policymakers to come up, at breakneck speed, with the most effective means to protecting their citizens, it can be hard to properly document the exact amount of resources that are going into the fight against the deadly disease and even harder for people in underrepresented communities who will most be affected by the shutdown policies being implemented across the world to access vital palliative measures. This is the vacuum BeatingCorona.NG has come to fill.
At the time of our launch on April 9, our database recorded up to 127 Billion Naira in contributions made by private entities, interest groups, individuals and government officials, to Nigeria’s COVID-19 relief fund.
The database also recorded a total of 270 contributors from these various sectors, of which brands, entities, and individuals such as First Bank, UBA, Aliko Dangote, Access Bank, BUA Group, Dr. Deji Adeleke, Femi Otedola, etc, were a part of.
The team pulled this information together by identifying all small and big interventions made per every state in Nigeria and putting out a process where interveners themselves can share their means of intervention with us.
Seeing as the second primary goal of BeatingCorona.NG is to direct prospective interveners on how they can make an impact, the team tracked all of the needs lacking in the fight against COVID-19 and have made a comprehensive list of them, from Ventilators to Well-fitted ambulance, to help prospective interveners know where to begin to provide help.
The team also created an expansive guide to connecting people who are most in need of the available help centers. Here you will find a regularly updated list of all the initiatives, groups and individuals who are providing immediate help and how you can reach them to get the help you need.
We launched, alongside this comprehensive database, an Insights category where text-based, as well as video interviews with some of the key players in the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria and the people most affected by the pandemic, are published alongside daily updates on some of the most pressing matters surrounding the pandemic in Nigeria.
In the coming days, we intend to partner with other platforms joining the virtual conversation and mapping out strategies to help keep Nigerians informed and to further strengthen our message and connect more people in need with willing interveners.
Visit: beatingcorona.ng.
Need some help? Visit: https://beatingcorona.ng/covid-19-helpers/
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android

			
			PV: 
			0