President Donald Trump of the United States of America (USA) on Friday promised America will sell ventilators to developing countries to speed up the battle to eliminate coronavirus across the world. The US President indicated readiness to begin with four countries which include Indonesia, Ecuador, El Salvador and Honduras.
Trump had held telephone conversation with presidents of Indonesia, Ecuador, El Salvador and Honduras, assuring them of United States intervention and willingness to send the desperately needed medical equipment to strengthen the fight against coronavirus.
Trump disclosing his telephone call to President Lenin Moreno of Ecuador, wrote on his Twitter: “We will be sending them desperately needed Ventilators, of which we have recently manufactured many, and helping them in other ways.”
Michael Kozak, top US Envoy for Latin America, also noted that the US has met its technological needs in the fight against coronavirus and can now export the products. Kozak stated: “We’re seeing our own needs met; we can become an exporter again.
“I think in many of these cases that the countries just want to buy them. They aren’t asking us for financing,”
Kozak, however, added that some countries could solicit assistance from US to purchase the medical equipment.
Nigeria may not likely benefit from the US invention because of the diplomatic flaw of rushing to acquire China ventilators at a time advanced countries of the world were scolding China for treachery in the creation and spread of coronavirus.
Germany has also step up interventions to assist developing countries in the fight against coronavirus. The German government has made supply of mobile laboratory to Rwanda and the neighbouring countries in Africa.
More anti-coronavirus interventions are expected as the advanced countries continue to make technological breakthroughs in discovery of vaccines and other medical equipment to contain and eradicate coronavirus. The world is in a hurry to end lockdown and re-open socio-economic activities.