The news of Chelsea’s advanced talk for the transfer of Liverpool’s goalie to Stamford Bridge has left the Blues fans with divided feelings and reactions.
The undesirable decision of Thibaut Courtois to quit the Stamford Bridge club set Chelsea on the motion to find a perfect replacement for the Belgian.
Chelsea were in an advanced transfer talks with Alisson
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that Chelsea reportedly held advanced talks to sign Alisson Becker from Roma, but suddenly felt that Courtois would have a rethink and remain at Stamford Bridge – a decision that gave Liverpool a chance to bring the Becker to Anfield in a £67million move in 2018.
This news obviously has left Chelsea fans reacting to their club’s inability to see the deal through especially considering that Alisson Becker has successfully turn out to solve the goal keeping problems at Anfield prior to his arrival.
And again, for the fact that Chelsea are yet to perfectly dealt with their goal keeping challenges has made it even more difficult for the Blues fans to swallow the bitter pills of losing out on Alisson Becker. Most of them have continually berate their club’s lack of intent with their inability to bring the Brazilian to Stamford Bridge.

Chelsea ended up with the signing of Kepa Arrizabalaga from Athletic Bilbao for £73million, but he was dropped midway through this season in favour of Willy Caballero, and boss Frank Lampard has now returned to a fresh search for a top-class keeper.
Chelsea fans watched Alisson become a solution to a problem that had plagued their bitter rivals Liverpool by solidifying their defence with the additional arrival of Virgil van Dijk in a £75m transfer from Southampton. The Reds matched on to win the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the World Club Cup.
National Daily recalls that Liverpool are 25 points clear at the top the English Premier League and were on the brink of sealing their first EPL title after 30 years with just six points from the remaining eight games before the unfortunate outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic that has sadly crippled all sporting activities.
Courtois quit Chelsea for Real Madrid in 2018
Courtois had made it clear he wanted to join Real Madrid – and while Chelsea thought there was a glimmer of hope that he would stay, they ultimately failed to convince him and he switched to the La Liga giants.
The Bllues missed out on Alisson – and their loss has certainly been Liverpool’s gain, with the 27-year-old having been a crucial part of the Reds’ success over the past two seasons, and regarded by many as the world’s best goalkeeper.







			
			PV: 
			0