The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has dismissed reports connecting the 5G network to the outbreak of Coronavirus.
In a statement that was signed by the NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, the alleged link between Coronavirus and 5G network was described as “misleading” and with no proven evidence.
The statement also emphasized that there is no correlation whatsoever between the 5G network and COVID-19.
The statement went further to clear up other misconceptions that have circulated regarding 5G network in Nigeria. According to the Commission, there is currently no deployment of 5G in the country. Instead, the network was only approved for a 3-month test run back in November 2019.
The NCC also reaffirmed that no license has been given to any telecoms operator in Nigeria to launch 5G network. Contrary to speculations, MTN Nigeria was only granted a trial spectrum, the statement said.
In the meantime, no conclusion has been made regarding the trial. And as such, 5G commissioning will not commence just yet, until all doubts are cleared.
“5G is a fifth generation of mobile technology which is an improvement of today’s 4G technology with enhanced capabilities. 5G technology provides the platform for new and emerging technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data to improve the way we live and work.
“It belongs to the same class of Non-ionising Radiation and a not different from those of 2G, 3G and 4G, hence there is nothing to worry about as safety and human health are top priorities in the design and deployment of 5G.”
Since the rumour about 5G killing people and causing the Coronavirus pandemic began circulating, there have been numerous arguments on social media. Some people have even called on the government to get rid of 5G.
However, several government agencies (including the Centre for Democracy and Development), have made taken it upon themselves to clarify and dispel the dangerous rumour.

			
			PV: 
			0