The sad emergence of COVID-19 no doubt has distorted global arrangement. Football is not exempted with all sporting activities halted due to the pandemic.
This has however, generated lots of uncertainty around football with some calling for the voiding of all leagues competition while others have called for their resumption once the epidemic is combated.
However, report reaching National Daily suggests that FIFA will reportedly confirm that the 2019/20 season has been extended indefinitely to allow leagues to be completed across the globe once the coronavirus crisis has subsided.
National Daily further learnt from the claim by The Athletic that the summer transfer window and player contracts will also be altered, with players whose deals were running out on June 30 now set to be allowed to stay with their current clubs until the season finishes.
Coronavirus pandemic has sadly halted all football activities
It is believed that FIFA hopes that the plans – which mean that the prospect of a ‘null and void’ Premier League season will become greatly reduced while giving allowance for each country to finish their leagues as and when they see that it is safe to do so.
The prospect of matches played behind closed doors or at neutral venues is now likely to come into focus as ways are discussed to finish the current campaign, with some leagues said to be determined to stage matches in front of fans when possible.
National Daily recalls that the English Premier League on Friday confirmed that it was committed to finishing the current season following a meeting of all 20 clubs.
“The Premier League is working closely with the whole of professional football in this country, as well as with the Government, public agencies and other relevant stakeholders to ensure the game achieves a collaborative solution.
“With this, there is a combined objective for all remaining domestic league and cup matches to be played, enabling us to maintain the integrity of each competition.
“However, any return to play will only be with the full support of the Government and when medical guidance allows.”
Monday marks four weeks since the most recent Premier League fixture, with the next matches potentially now slated for June.

			
			PV: 
			0