Babagana Kingibe
        
 


There were indications that certain forces in the Presidential Villa may have risen to scuttle the appointment of Babagana Kingibe as the new Chief of Staff by President Muhammadu Buhari . Presidency sources disclosed that while awaiting official announcement on the appointment of a new Chief of Staff after the death of Abba Kyari, influential persons in the seat of power close to the President kicked against  the idea of appointing Kingibe to succeed Kyari; and purportedly prevailed on President Buhari to make U-turn.

Thereafter, power blocs in the seat of power alleged to be led by Alhaji Mamman Daura, the wife of the President, Hajia Aisha Buhari, and others, were said to be in the vanguard of lobbying the President to appoint one of their loyalists as the new Chief of Staff.
Daura was said to be lobbying for Adamu Adamu for the Chief of Staff to the President.

The wife of the President,  Hajia Aisha Buhari, was said to be sponsoring retired Brigadier Buba Marwa for the Chief of Staff appointment.

Former Governor of Kano State, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, was also identified as a contender for the CoS job.

Some interests also  linked the Comptroller General of Customs, retired Colonel Hameed Ali, to the jostle for the Chief of Staff appointment. It could appear Ali may not get the endorsement of Daura because of the CG’s personal closeness to Buhari which could jeopardise Daura’s influence in the Presidency. But Ali is believed to have the confidence of President Buhari after leading his second term electioneering campaign in 2019.

However, late Abba Kyari was recommended to President Buhari by Mamman Daura.
Some other interests were said to be lobbying for the return of retired Major Hamza El-Mustapha to the State House as Chief of Staff to the President.

Meanwhile, presidential media aide had in a statement last week  indicated that President Buhari is observing social distancing measure in the fight to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. Thus, the President is not accessible to anyone at the moment.
The President has been in isolation even before the death of Abba Kyari and is yet to resume public activities.