The Speaker of the Lagos state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa , has announced the end of his ‘breakfast bread’ programme to residents of some parts of the state.

The decision to end the house-to-house palliative programme that started when a lockdown was announced in the state follows the commencement of Ramadan, the Islamic fasting period.

“Since the Ramadan is commencing, it would make simple sense to end the programme,” the Speaker said in a statement released by his media office.

Obasa, who chairs the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures, thanked those who supported the programme as well as those who, with open hearts, received the gesture on a daily basis while it lasted.

The Speaker also commended journalists, social media activists and Nigerians for their support, kind words and prayers while the programme lasted.

“It was a private effort to alleviate the concerns of some of us, especially concerning what to eat in the morning. We thought that with something for breakfast daily, part of the challenges of the lockdown would have been solved.

“We want to thank God for enabling us to run this programme for this long. However, we have to end it in respect for the Muslim faithfuls who would join in the Ramadan,”
 Obasa, who also shared 10,000 re-bagged rice during the period, explained.

Recall that the programme received a boost with the contribution of N10 million by kind-hearted Nigerians including Lagos businessmen, Adebiyi Olalekan, and Taiwo Elegbede; Sunday Babatunde, Hon. Nureni Akinsanya and Afolabi.

Other contributors to the programme are Demola Akile, Jubilee Abdulkareem, Hon. Mojisola Meranda, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, Gbolahan Yishawu, the Chairman of Agege Local Government Area, Ganiyu Egunjobi, and Hon. Fatai Mojeed.

Meanwhile, the Speaker urged Nigerians to be mindful of their environments, focus on their health and be sure to be safe against COVID-19 at all times just as he congratulated Muslims for the divine grace they have from God to be part of the Ramadan.