The latest reports just reaching National Daily reveal that the English Premier League clubs have remained united in finishing the current campaign. This was central in their discussion at Friday’s meeting.
Recall that all professional football across England has been suspended indefinitely due to the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic.
In furtherance with the health experts warning that the worst of the virus is yet to hit the UK, and the government confirming on Thursday that all social distancing measures will remain in place for another three weeks, it could therefore be some time before the action resumes.
Meanwhile, it was reported that a group of clubs were believed to be behind a scheme to finish the season by June 30 prior to their Friday meeting, regardless of whether the title, European qualification and relegation had been finalised.
However, National Daily gathered from the claim by Sky Sports that the June ultimatum was not raised at Friday’s meeting, with the primary topic of conversation being a debate over models for completing the season.
While ITV Sport believe that the earliest start behind closed doors would be sometime in May, but all plans are to be guided by the government.
The meeting between the Premier League, its clubs, the EFL, PFA and LMA lasted for two hours and those in attendance were also presented with models of how games could be played again National Daily can confirm.
“We are acutely aware of the distress COVID-19 is causing and our thoughts are with all those directly affected by the pandemic,” a Premier League spokesperson said.
“In common with other businesses and industries, the Premier League and our clubs are working through complex planning scenarios. We are actively engaging with stakeholders, including broadcast partners, and our aim is to ensure we are in a position to resume playing when it is safe to do so and with the full support of the Government.
“The health and wellbeing of players, coaches, managers, club staff and supporters are our priority and the League will only restart when medical guidance allows.
“Today’s shareholders’ meeting provided an opportunity to discuss possible scheduling models. It remains our objective to complete the 2019/20 season but at this stage all dates are tentative while the impact of COVID-19 develops.
“In response to the pandemic, the Premier League, our clubs and players have provided vital support for communities and the NHS and will continue to do so after matches recommence.”

			
			PV: 
			0