With the speculations of the English Premier League set to cancel the rest of the 2019/2020 season, clubs are already setting the wheel for the transfer business next summer.
National Daily previously reported that Manchester United acquired the services of Bruno Fernandes from Sporting CP while also sealing a loan transfer of Odion Ighalo from Shanghai Shenhua in the last January transfer window and they are still willing to fortify their team at the next summer transfer market.
Sequel to the above, the Red Devils fans are already relishing the prospect of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer calculations come next summer National Daily gathered.
Solskjaer speaking exclusively to Sky Sports’ Gary Neville and Geoff Shreeves, said: “Football is going to get back to normality at one point, and it’s very important we’re ready when that happens.
Solskjaer is confident of United’s capabilities in the next transfer market

“We want to be the best at everything, and of course now is a chance to spend more time, you discuss players, discuss plans, we’ve evaluated what we need, of course with the coaching staff we’ve looked at games, evaluated games, discussing on video calls like this.”
The United boss speaking further when asked whether United can exploit the market when football returns, said:
“Then the market, who knows how the market is going to react to this? Who knows which clubs need to sell players?
There might be just a situation there where you can exploit, and I know that we at Man United we are one of the biggest, and the biggest, financially well-off.
“I’m sure we are capable, when we get back to normality, that we can do the business that we want to.”
And when asked whether the chase for players has accelerated during football’s postponement, the Norwegian tactician said that it is inevitable there will be more messages between him and his coaches regarding transfers.
Football’s postponement may also allow the likes of Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford to fully recover from injuries, something Solskjaer says is a benefit if they can return at a similar or better level than other players.
More interestingly, Solskjaer whose side is currently fifth in the Premier League with nine games remaining, is also confident his United players will cope well with the forced break, and has seen evidence previously that his squad return focused from periods with little time on the pitch.
“Paul and Marcus have been out, now we’ve still got games left, and I think everyone in the league will start more or less on the same level. Maybe they’ve got more motivation to keep going now as they can see when they’re back they may be on the same level or even a better level physically.
“In a way, they have got an opportunity here to play a bigger part in this season than they had hoped. And they are big players for us, some of the most important players.


			
			PV: 
			0