The rebuilding process at Old Trafford has remained Ole Gunnar Solskjaer utmost ambition. The reign of the Norwegian gaffer has witnessed the arrival of Harry Maguire, Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Daniel James from the last summer transfer window.
Similarly, Bruno Fernandes was added to United’s rebuilding squad while Odion Ighalo also secured a loan deal transfer to Old Trafford in the recent January transfer window.
Amazingly, the recent additions from the January transfer have desirably fortified the United squad with the Red Devils going unbeaten in their last eleven games in all competitions before all sporting activities were halted due to the unfortunate Covid-19 pandemic.
However, the prospect of Harry Kane teaming up with the Red Devils will certainly be a thing of interest to every United fan considering the prowess of the England captain who has consistently remained a prolific striker.
Kane could join United this summer for an equal world-record fee of £200m
Interestingly for United fans, report reaching National Daily has just revealed that Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy will sanction the departure of Harry Kane to Manchester United this summer.
National Daily further gathered from the claim by the Mail on Sunday that the sale of the England talisman will happen when the transfer window opens, though there’s a catch: United have been told they must pay a world-record equalling fee of £200m to sign the striker.
Sadly, Kane who has endured a difficult season, have been sidelined since New Years’ Day with a torn hamstring tendon while he saw Mauricio Pochettino, whom he enjoyed a strong working relationship replaced by Jose Mourinho.
Meanwhile, the potential failure of Tottenham to qualify for the Champions League could prove the decisive trigger for an exit of the England hitman with the striker speaking about his future on an Instagram live chat and the overriding message was a mixed one.
The England captain admitted to being ambitious and said: “I’m not someone to just stay there for the sake of it.”
And it’s partially for those reasons, together with the club’s financial worries right now relating to the break in football, that will see Spurs grant United permission to open talks over the transfer.
National Daily recalls from a report last month which claimed that the 26-year old England international had two great reasons for desiring to pursue his career with United while there is no denial of Solskjaer’s active presence in the transfer market for a formidable striker to fortify his attacking options after the Euro Paper Talk outlined the Norwegian three strikers targets in mind.
Former United’s striker Dimitar Berbatov, who made a similar move from Tottenham to Old Trafford in 2008, knows exactly the dilemma Kane faces.
The former Bulgaria international hinted earlier this week: “I’ve seen some comments from Harry Kane, saying he loves Spurs but if they aren’t going to be producing trophies then maybe it is time to leave. He knows all that, of course he’s thinking about it, now even more than before.
“I think once it returns, maybe football will change in the amount of money that is spent, in the way players are bought and sold. If you are Kane in this situation and Daniel Levy is your chairman, he isn’t going to sell you cheap, he is going to ask for what is fair, which in the case of Kane is a lot of money.
“I see a lot of similarities in the situation I went through and what is happening with Kane at the minute. There is a strong connection between Spurs and Manchester United, Teddy Sherringham was at Tottenham then went to Old Trafford, I was a Spurs striker and went to United and now Kane, who’s also a striker, is being linked with a move there.
“I feel that it’s also a similar time in his career that I was at, you start to think if you’re on the right path and you think about winning things. If you are one of the lucky ones like Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes or Gary Neville where you spend your whole life at one great club then you don’t have to ask yourselves those questions, you just want to work hard and prove yourself everyday.
“When I left Spurs, even though I had won a trophy with the club it was a still difficult decision to make. I was following my own path and I knew that people wouldn’t be happy, but I had to do it, I come from a small country and when one of the biggest clubs in the world came in for me, it was my dream.”
Harry Kane who has scored 181 goals for Tottenham is regarded as one of the finest strikers in the world. The 26-year-old is contracted to Tottenham until 2024 and Levy believes his valuation of the striker is realistic.
 




			
			PV: 
			0