says vulnerable persons are being shortchanged

By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Center for Human and Socioeconomic Rights (CHSR), has faulted the palliative scheme piloted by government at various strata of the nation,to ameliorate the pangs of hunger and lack inflicted on the masses, owing to the ravaging  Coronavirus pandemic as it demands accountability and fairness.

The National President of CHSR a non governmental organisation,Comrade Alex Omotehinse made this disclosure to journalists in Lagos, while felicitating with Christians on Easter Celebration.

Alex noted that people are  complaining of hunger and not Coronavirus,as the purported relief materials and cash they claimed to be giving to some vulnerable persons are not properly coordinated.

He added that the government representative claiming to have doled out several millions of Naira to vulnerable Nigerians and relief materials are still missing the point, as the afforded palliatives are clearly not getting to the real targets.

“We demand for a proper and accountable palliative measure to be put in place for the common man due to the additional 14 day extension of the lockdown,as we are not satisfied with the process thus far.

We are aware the that FG announced sharing a certain amount of money to several households across the country; many of the said vulnerable citizens feigned to have been reached, have cried out they never got anything , as they note they are yet to receive assistance of any kind from the Federal Government.

“We  urge the Federal Government to critically look into the matter; and review the structure in which palliative measures are being distributed especially money distributed since accurate data is not available.

“We suggest that the federal Government should use the BVN, Co-operative Society, Motor Drivers Association, Market Men and  Women Association, Local Traditional leaders and the Civil Society as a means of getting to the people.

“The production and purchase of locally produced agricultural products should be encouraged to keep the economy running, because food items has been in high demand.

“We  still have a problem with the implementation of the  curfew and lock down from state to state,where it is a known fact that it was not a total lockdown, this in itself  makes it is difficult to take care of index cases in the country and control those coming from outside the country.

“We have observed  that the restriction of movement and sit-at-home order is not  well coordinated  as a swift measure to contain the spread of the deadly  coronavirus known as covid-19  pandemic across the Nation and world.

“Various States had announced curfew, sit-at-home, total lockdown when virus come calling, but the Federal Government should also take note that many of her citizens about 75% of Nigerians depends on their daily income to survive and put food on their table.

“As the federal government has  directed them to sit -at-home, they  should also provide proficient palliative measures (including cash and food items) to cushion the terrible effect this may have on them.

“It is of utmost importance that we centralize our action   to makes it easier for proper control, this must be done now to control the rising number of affected people the federal and state government cannot continue to play with the lives of people especially the poor amongst us.

The National President, also noted that,many of the individuals incorporated in the distribution network of the palliatives are still scamming the nation and using the pandemic as a tool to defraud the country.

 He cited the alleged burning of  the Accountant General’s office known as the Treasury House, as a probable development, which should be investigated as quickly as possible to rekindle people’s confidence in this government.



			
			PV: 
			0