By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Action Democratic Party, ADP has called on all relevant Ministries and Agencies of the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency, review its policy on providing palliatives to the vulnerable.

ADP through its National Chairman ENGR. Yabagi Yusuf Sani premised the counsel on the fact that though the scheme is aimed at cushioning the socio economic effects of the Covid 19 pandemic, which has led to President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive on cessation of movement in Lagos, Ogun states and the Federal Capital Territory,yet the criteria of vulnerability is questionable.

“As a political party, we are not oblivious of the fact that this pandemic is a global disaster that does not recognize class, status or affinity.

“It therefore leaves Nigerians to wonder the criteria by which the Federal Government arrived at its statistics of the vulnerable group requiring assistance.

“Similarly, Action Democratic Party considers the twenty thousand naira being disbursed as palliatives to the poorest of the poor by the Federal Government through the office of the Honourable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development as grossly inconsequential.

“Considering the present global recession and report recently released by the World Bank, attributing Nigeria as one of the poverty capitals in the world.

The ADP therefore urge the Buhari – led administration to urgently consider reviewing the palliatives upwards in order to reflect the present economic realities and cushion the effects of the lockdown in all the states affected and the FCT.

“This should be done effectively by involving all the stakeholders, including traditional and community leaders who are closer to the masses. Other Relevant stakeholders includes religious leaders, the media and civil society organizations.

We appeal to all Nigerians to comply strictly with the guidelines issued by the NCDC and other relevant agencies and support the government in preventing the spread of Corona virus.




			
			PV: 
			0