The coronavirus pandemic has altered the narratives of world activities with all sporting activities halted due to the sad deadly epidemic.
The English Premier League (EPL) fans have wished and prayed for the end of the outbreak to enable them reignite their passion for football.
National Daily recalls that Liverpool were just six points away from winning their first EPL title after 30 years with their nine games left as they were 25 points away from their nearest rival in Manchester City who have ten games left before the league was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Liverpool needed just 6 points from their remaining 9 games to clinch the 2019/2020 EPL title
However, report just reaching National Daily claims that the EPL is set to cancel the rest of the 2019/2020 season.
According to Udinese sporting director Pierpaolo Marino, the EPL is set to queue behind Belgiums’s top tier and cancel the rest of its season.
But the vital question remains what becomes the fate of Liverpool who have demonstrated a rare determination to seal the league. If they would be awarded the title like Club Brugge is left to be seen.
Marino believes that the EPL will cancel the rest of the current season eventually
Marino, whose club is owned by Giampaolo Pozzo – the father of Watford owner Gino, believes England will eventually do likewise.
“The Belgian Federation has already sanctioned the end of their league, despite the threats of sanctions from UEFA,” Marino told Sportitalia.
“In England, the Premier League is about to release a similar statement, because the situation there is becoming very, very serious. I frankly just hope we can enjoy football again after the coronavirus.
“It doesn’t matter how long it takes, we need to get out of this danger zone. I am worried for the next seasons, not the old one.”
Meanwhile, Liverpool fans appeared to be highly spirited with the optimism of  clinching the EPL title eventually when the UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin offered some good news on Tuesday while holding that he can see “no way” Liverpool will be denied the title whether the season is completed or not.
“I see no way for Liverpool to stay untitled. If the championship resumes, they will almost certainly win it – theoretically, it has not yet reached the guaranteed level, but it is practically close,” the UEFA chief told Slovenian publication Ekipa.
“However, if it could not be played, it would also be necessary to announce the results in some way and find some key on how the champions should be determined. And, of course, again I do not see a scenario in which that would not be Liverpool,” Ceferin added.
But sadly, Marino could be correct with his assertion, as FA chairman Greg Clarke admitted on Tuesday that it may not be possible to complete the 2019/2020 campaign.
“We are committed to finishing the professional football season as this resolves the issues of promotion and relegation together with title winners on merit,” Clarke told the FA’s official website.
“However, we may not be able to finish the season as football is not our priority, human life is, and we will do as the government directs as the pandemic unfolds.”
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0