The devastating effect of coronavirus to the world cannot be overemphasized with a high mortality rate of over 3.04 million and massive revenue loss due to economic shutdown.
The world meanwhile has not welcomed the pandemic without a fight as the scientists and medical practitioners have continually battle to save humanity.
However, National Daily can sadly confirm from a report by the New York Times that a respected emergency doctor Dr. Lorna Breen has taken her own life after seeing the devastation that coronavirus cause, her dad said.
Dr. Philip Green (middle) wants her daughter (left) to be remembered as a “hero” who died saving the world
Dr. Lorna has been described as a “hero” who died trying to save the world by her devastated father Dr. Philip Breen.
“She tried to do her job and it killed her.”
The 49-year-old New York late Dr. Lorna doctor was medical director of the emergency department at New York-Presbyterian Allen Hospital, before her death on Sunday.
Dr. Philip wants the world not forget his daughter as a “hero” when he told the New York Times: “Make sure she’s praised as a hero, because she was.
“She’s a casualty just as much as anyone else who has died.”
Dr. Lorna took her life due to the overwhelming devastation of coronavirus onslaught on humanity
He said his daughter was “on the trenches” in the battle against the disease, and it had taken its toll.
According to Dr. Philip, his daughter had described the “onslaught” of patients who were dying even before they arrived in the emergency room.
There have been more than a million confirmed coronavirus cases in the US, with 56,521 deaths nationwide.
Of these, more than 17,000 deaths were recorded in New York.
Meanwhile, National Daily further gathered from Dr. Philip’s account that Dr Lorna, who did not have a history of mental illness, had contracted and recovered from Covid-19 herself.

Dr. Lorna was a medical director of the emergency department at New York-Presbyterian Allen Hospital

She had gone back to work, only to be sent home.
She was staying in Virginia with family when the tragedy happened.
The sad end of Dr. Lorna has left her colleagues voicing out their devastation at the respected medic’s death.