The emergence of Bruno Fernandes has delighted the Red Devils fans as the Portuguese has instantly hit the ground running at Old Trafford.
And sequel to his ability to improve United performance since his arrival with the Old Trafford side recording amazing unbeaten run in their last eleven outings, while many have argued what the future holds for Paul Pogba, others have expressed their desire to see the return of the Frenchman to further bolster United’s midfield.
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that Bruno Fernandes is relishing the prospect of playing alongside Paul Pogba in Manchester United’s midfield, when football returns.
This revelation has left average United fans in wild amazement as they believe that such partnership will definitely make their team more formidable.
Pogba’s immense quality is unquestionable
Fernandes speaks enthusiastically about Pogba’s individual ability when answering a question from a fan in the second part of our exclusive Q&A session, which you can watch in full from 19:00 BST today.
The Portuguese midfielder further reveals that, although the 2019/20 campaign has been tough for Pogba, who has played only eight times due to injury, the France World Cup winner will bounce back once it is safe for the sport to resume.

When asked how excited he is to play with Paul, Bruno replies: “A lot. A lot. I think we have a lot of good players in the midfield.
“Obviously Paul is injured from a long time [ago], and all we know is he has a lot of qualities.
“We can say in football that people normally forget what you do good when you have a mistake. You can do good for 34 games, and one game you do bad and everyone will remember that.

“Paul is coming from a bad moment, because of the situation. When he played also, the club and the team was not good, because the expectations are high for Paul, because Paul is a top player and Manchester United pay a lot for him, and expectations are a lot for him.

It’s normal when you are in that situation you don’t play like a superstar, because everyone expects from Paul like they expect from [Cristiano] Ronaldo at Juventus or [Lionel] Messi at Barcelona. Everyone expects this from Paul in Manchester, because they know he has the qualities for this. Also this is confidence in Paul. The team, we have a lot of confidence in Paul.”
“I know Paul from Juve, because I played against him in Italy. And believe me, it’s really hard to play against Paul,” Bruno adds.
“Because I play in midfield, I mark him. We play in the same line, so it’s really difficult to play against Paul, because he has power, he has technique.
“It’s difficult to find a player like Paul: big, strong and technical. It’s difficult to find a player like this, and he has a lot of qualities. I hope he comes [back] soon.”
Interestingly, the Fernandes expects Pogba’s imminent return to receive a warm welcome.
“He started training with us in the week before we stopped, so I think when he comes back he will start to play, and be in the team.
“More than expectations, I’m confident what Paul can give to us, to the team. I think he has a lot to give, he has a lot of quality, and I think with the positive energy in the club – because we won a lot of games and we are in a good moment – everyone, the supporters and everything, will be more patient with Paul maybe.
“I feel sometimes when the things go wrong, the patience is less, you know? It’s normal, because the fans want to win. Football is about winning; it’s not about playing.
“But the confidence now in the team is bigger. So I think Paul, when he comes back, he will feel this and will give more for the next months and the next games.”
 

			
			PV: 
			0