The People’s Republic of China, China Railway Construction Corporation (CRCC), through a subsidiary firm, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (‘CCECC’), has explained why they are supporting Nigeria in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic that is adversely affecting livelihoods and economies across the world by making available necessary medical equipment and health consumables.
The Managing Director of CCECC Nigeria, Micheal Jiang, in a statement indicated that CCECC delivered amongst others, about 16-tons of test kits, ventilators, disinfection machine, disposable medical masks, N95 masks, medicines, rubber gloves, protective gowns, goggles, face shields, infra-red thermometers and other critical care items, through a chartered flight operated by Air Peace, which arrived Nigeria on Wednesday.
The chartered flight arrived the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja on Wednesday with the items required by the Nigerian Government which were handed over by CCECC to relevant authorities.
CCECC MD explained that considering the company’s large number of employees in Nigeria, CCECC at its own cost, further  dispatched a 15-member working team from CRCC, 12 of whom are experienced medical professionals with expertise in infectious disease, respiratory illness, intensive care, cardiology, neurology, general surgery and anesthesiology. He added that members of the team also have relevant experience in the prevention and diagnosis of the COVID-19.
Micheal Jiang assured that all members of the working team have tested negative to COVID-19 and shall commence their stay in Nigeria by undertaking 14 days in quarantine.
“The primary purpose of the working team is to escort the medical supply, provide guidance for their usage and distribution.
“They will also provide CCECC employees with critical and necessary healthcare assistance where necessary.
“They are also coming with adequate PPE and medical items for the employees. In addition, under the directive of Chinese Embassy and in response to the Nigeria Government’s request, the working team may also share with Nigerian medical teams effective methods on how to contain the COVID-19 and provide advice on the use of relevant medical equipment. The team is not coming to treat Covid-19 patients in Nigeria,” Micheal Jiang declared.
he added that in keeping with its corporate value, “Stride with Nigeria”, CCECC is participating in the construction of two COVID-19 response facilities in the FCT for free as part of its Corporate Social Responsibilities. The facilities were identified to include a 196-bed at “ThisDay Dome Treatment Centre,” in collaboration with Sahara Group and Arise News; and the 150-bed “Idu Depot Treatment Centre.”

			
			PV: 
			0