By SUNDAY ODIBASHI














In less than one week of operations, the Special Squads deployed by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, from Abuja, have repelled the gang robbers terrorising border communities in Lagos and Ogun states. Peace is gradually returning to the once socially and psychologically troubled border areas.

The Special Squad have succcessfully restored relative peace and orfer in the troubled communities. Residents now have respite and have  been relieved of palpable fear of attack by the gang robbers.

While the Police Commissioners in Lagos and Ogun states were engaging  in debate about the reality of the gang robbers, the IG Special Squads on arrival, swung into action.

Effective communications systems were put in place for citizens/Police exchange of information during emergencies or attack which often occur in late  night hours. The IG Special Squads also had direct interface with the troubled communities and had good collaboration with the vigilante groups and residents.

The Police maintained constant patrol around the troubled border communities. Some arrests were made. The presence of the Special Squad scared away the gang robbers who, perhaps, have found the border communities no longer conducive to armed robbery operations.

At the time of this report, tension has come down,  fear has gone off the residents and life is returning to normal except for the coronavirus lockdown. The Lagos Control Room was effective in citizens contacts, notification of threat threats of attack, and rapid responses.

The Commander of Area G at Ogba, Lagos, was also highly effective in responses to places of attack or threat of robbery on receiving distress calls.

The intervention of the IG Special Squads was complemented by the vigilante operations of residents of the various communities. They come out amass at night to guard their streets against the gang robbers. Those who cannot watch at night provide support, either giving out money or buying gin, brandy, whisky or other alcohol brands for the volunteer night guards. Virtually everyone was involved.

In some streets, operatives of Amotekun were recruited to guard the neighbourhood. The arrangements were strengthened by the combination of forces in adjacent streets.

Noticeably, there were areas of robbery attacks while in others, communities were apprehensive, proactive and prepared to forestall being victims of the gang robbers. All these generated tension which simply needed the presence of the police to reassure the people of their safety, not debate or doubts.

However, the security situation provided good test or experimentation of community policing and collaboration of vigilante groups with the Nigeria Police. While the Police took control of major roads, the vigilante groups were in the inner streets. The criminals had no space to operate. This obviously is a credit to the IG of Police who have been articulating community policing over time.

Meanwhile, residents still maintain vigilance in their communities while the Police have continued with patrol operations.

At least order and peace have been restored to border communities of Ishaga, Fagba, Ajuwon, Lambe, Akute, Alagbole, Obawole, Oke Ira, Alagbado, Abule Egba, among others.

People are now more concerned about hunger and lack of money caused by coronavirus lockdown.














 

			
			PV: 
			0