The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has called on all Christians and Muslims in the country to unite in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic that has killed over a hundred thousand people globally.
In an Easter message signed by Professor Ishaq Akintola, Director and Founder of MURIC on Monday, he said such a united front would be effective in the fight against insecurity, illiteracy, ethnic bigotry and religious extremism which are the common enemies of humanity.
His statement read as follows; “We felicitate with Nigerian Christians on the occasion of the Easter season. We urge the body of Christ in Nigeria to recall the lessons of forbearance, tolerance and love which are embedded in Easter.
“Today’s events are particularly didactic as the whole of mankind faces a common enemy, viz, COVID-19. All the scientists of the world have not been able to come up with a solution to stop the massive deaths. It has defied our atomic and nuclear weapons, killing us in our thousands on a daily basis.
“This common enemy has shown that it does not discriminate between religions. Muslims have been forced to desert the mosques on Friday. The Ka’abah has been locked up for weeks. Umrah (lesser pilgrimage) was suspended.
“Like the sword of Damocles, the fear of this same Coronavirus hangs above hajj 2020. Muslims may not congregate as usual during this fast-approaching Ramadan.
“For the first time in a very long period, Christians marked Easter without procession. Palm Sunday was streamed live and people had to watch and listen from their homes. Sunday services in church have been without the faithful for weeks.
“COVID-19 reigns supreme. Can we all see now? Diseases are our enemy, not the Christians or the Muslims. Ignorance, criminals, ethnic jingoists and religious fanatics are our common foes. These are the enemies we must fight, not one another.
“We must come together willy-nilly in recognition of the fact that we need one another to face our common enemies, namely, disease, insecurity, illiteracy, ethnic bigotry and religious extremism,” he added.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0