Forget the Forbes list, these men have more wealth than Dangote. They are Ibos but they are global in terms of assets and business. Perhaps Forbes needs to unveil them.

1. Eddy Martins Egwuenu (Banking industry)
A previous bank boss, Egwuenu is the second biggest individual investor of the Zenith Bank Group. His 1.5% stake in Zenith Bank alone is worth about $60 million.

2. ABC Orjiakor (Oil Industry)
The readied orthopedic and injury expert may have prospered on account of his impressive relationship with Nigerian military big whigs, for instance, past President Ibrahim Babangida, anyway ABC Orjiakor is a compelling operator on all parameters. Maybe the wealthiest man, Orjiakor is the Chairman and CEO of Shebah E&P Company Limited, an oil examination firm which has a 40% stake in the toward the ocean square OML 108 which makes in excess of 8,000 barrels for every day. Orjiakor is also official of Zebbra Energy Limited which has the deepwater concession OPL 248 toward the ocean Nigeria.

3. Sam Iwuajoku (Commodities, Aviation and administrations industries)
Iwuajoku made his fortune bringing in rice and steel bars, while utilizing his broad political associations with acquire a progression of liberal import obligation waivers from the Nigerian government. Among different endeavors, he reinvested in private flight administrations. His organization, Quits Aviation administrations is one of only a handful scarcely any fixed-base administrators in the nation. Stops Aviation Services possesses a huge support overhang at the Murtala Muhammed International air terminal in Lagos and a fly contract administration.

4. Arthur Eze (Oil industry)
The Nigerian oilman sits on Atlas Oranto Petroleum, a West African investigation organization which possesses a few delivering and non-creating oil and gas resources across Nigeria, Liberia, Equatorial Guinea and the Gambia. In 2010, Oranto Atlas auctions off a lot of oil obstructs in Liberia for $250 million. Eze stashed $200 million from the deal.