Dear Cynthia Morgan,

I miss you ‘dieee’.

Damn.

Happy Easter, Christ rose for you and me.

I pray that the terminal sickness that took you off the music scene all these years be terminated.

Even as Christ rise today.

Wow.

So good that Burna Boy was taking lesson notes from you. So good that Burna Boy was doing Tiwa Savage on your music video (yeah, that thing sister Tiwa did for Wizkid’s Fever music video, Burna did it too for you).

And today the guy’s shoulder is so raised up like nobody was there for him. Yet Oga was a ‘video vixen’ in that your sweet ‘Simati Niya’ song of 2015.

I do hope he was there for you all through this illness.
Shout out to all the ladies that held their own. And to others still holding it down. They are quick to say the music thing is dominated by the men.

Well let’s remember champs like you who waved the flag and mentored some guys who are famous today. Ladies like Mocheddah.  Many people dont know that Davido was also a ‘video vixen’ for Mocheddah.

I remember my interview with Mocheddah, it was her that first told me of Davido. Davido didn’t even have a single out then. I asked her, ‘who in the music industry do you think will become the next big thing?’. She answered, “Davido, I like him. I think he will take the industry by storm”.

I didn’t even know Davido then. I still didn’t know Davido appeared as a character in one of her songs until way after Davido was a big thing. Well — shout out to all them ladies of talent and hardwork. The guys won’t give them credits. But we know they inspired and tutored a lot of today’s stars.

Back to you, Cynthia.

You were just so good. I do not think any Edo State female musician comes before you in terms of talent and mark. None I can think of at the moment. And your talent isn’t just suprem in Edo state. In Nigeria and on the globe, you hold your own.

You are one of the reasons PSquare broke-up. You were so good that Mr. P wanted PSquare to sign you under Square Records. But Jude Okoye signed you under his own label, NorthSide Entertainment Inc.

And eventually, you left NorthSide Inc. You said in an interview that you were “not happy being with them. For them music is business, but for you music is life”.

It was a sad divorce.

For both parties, cause that was actually the end of Cynthia Morgan. We never know the details of the issues. But we can guess, and guess right. However, today is Easter. Ediale will be nice.

There’s no denying that music is what you breath. Something you started at age 7. And at 17 you dropped a debut single with General Pype. Since then you have dropped super sounds like “Don’t Break My Heart”, “German Juice”, “Lead Me On” and my favorite “Simati Niya”.

Like I said, I do love you “dieeeee”.

You were different. Burna Boy learnt a lot from you. And that’s the truth.

But life has happened. And we don’t know how far you can go again. I heard you had family issues too. Amd that’s why you changed your name to Madrina.

Well. I don’t think I will ever stop calling you Cynthia Morgan.

We can’t forget you also did your thing with Nollywood. Two movies come to mind now, “The Wrong Number” Directed by Saint Joseph ovensehi, and Ay’s comedy movie “A trip to Jamaica”.

I am a fan. Your number one fan. Do try coming back. Please.

Your Number One Fan spotter,
Ediale.
#ForTheCulture

PS: We must help document these files. So new comers can be more careful when they come on board. Anybody can be sick. It’s never fair to mock anyone that falls ill. And we also know that some certain lifestyle could have a damaging effect on our health. Today, it appears Wande Coal is managing a skin disease too. Our hearts go out to everyone that’s sick. We also preach that we do all we do in moderation. Our health comes first. Habits like too much smoking, drinking and so on weakens our immune system.

			
			PV: 
			0