counsels FG on fair treatment to all

The President of Christian Association of Nigeria, (CAN), Rev. Dr. Samson Ayokunle has disclosed that the period when the Coronavirus  scourge hits up remains the best time to ascertain the real Church through unfettered charity to the needy.

Rev.Dr. Ayokunle communicated the stance of CAN in his Easter greetings to all Christians in Nigeria and all over the globe, as we grapple with the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic.


“Let all local churches remember to make relief packages available to the poor among them at this time. This is the time we would know the true church of Christ and those that are just commercial outfits.


The cleric made this assertion  in a statement issued by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji his Special Assistant Media &Communications.

He noted further that,”Coronavirus disruptions of human activities however cannot deter us from our joy and victory over all evils which Christ’s unique resurrection from the dead has brought to us.

“The period of the arrest, the trial, the sufferings of Christ and his eventual crucifixion and burial were not only periods of pains and gloom to the Lord himself but much more to his followers.

“I bring Easter greetings to all in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord and Saviour.

“There is no other time the hope of victory over circumstances of life which Easter brings is more relevant to humans than now when we are forced to celebrate Easter for the first time in over one hundred years in lockdown

“It appeared every hope was lost. However, the devil didn’t have a field day for long. On the third day, death couldn’t hold him captive anymore, the Lord broke the power of hell, grave and all evils that conspired together against the King of glory.

“He rose in power and victory to the shame of Satan and his cohorts. The disciples saw the Lord, ate with him and were happy again. Their faces radiated with joy and victory at last.

“Beloved and fellow Nigerians, we shall see the end of all evils challenging us in the name of Jesus including COVID-19.

” A writer has said ‘Tough times never last but tough people do.’ Even at this time, those who know their God shall wax strong and do exploits.

The CAN symbol in Nigeria also commend the various efforts of government at different strata of the society, channelled towards ameliorating the attendant hardship caused by the ravaging disease.

“We commend greatly both the Federal and State governments for rising up strongly to confront the evil called Coronavirus pandemic. We urge them not to deter in confronting it headlong until we kick out the evil from our nation completely.

“We further urge the governments to be transparent and inclusive of all regions and religious persuasions in the identification of the poor to which pandemic relief materials and payments are being made available.

“Even after the government has explained the mode by which they identified the beneficiaries, many Nigerians, including the National Assembly’s members are still really not convinced that the poor around us are the beneficiaries.

“We know the government cannot touch every poor in the society for lack of enough resources, but equal selection of the poor per state with balance in religious persuasions would have done better justice.

“We shall continue to pray for the government for right and inclusive decisions always for our general good.

“I am fully persuaded that very soon, coronavirus will become history and we shall all have victory over it. Let us intensify prayers for a quick recovery for as many that are recuperating from its attacks.” Said Rev. Ayokunle.






			
			PV: 
			0