The Nigeria Governors forum (NGF) on Friday communicated the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, highlighting certain adjustments they want President Muhammadu Buhari to incorporate in the presidential broadcast on coronavirus lockdown in the country being awaited this weekend.
NGF Chairman, John Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti State Governor, who signed the letter, referred the SGF to the teleconference the governors held with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday where it was agreed that the NGF can suggest adjustments to the lockdown order to the presidential broadcast.
Fayemi indicated that subject to the approval of President Buhari, the NGF recommends the following:
Inter-state lockdown with exemption of movement of essential supplies which include foods, beverages, medical and pharmaceuticals, petroleum supplies and agricultural products; internal free movement but with restrictions on large gatherings and assemblies; overnight curfews; lockdown of flights; and compulsory use of face masks/coverings in the public.
There are indications that the NGF is acting too late. Nigerians are already exhausted before their suggestions to the President. Besides, some states, essentially, in the north commenced restrictions this week, while Lagos, Rivers and some other states, including the FCT, are on the fifth week of lockdown.
While Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State insisted on total lockdown and closure of borders in the state, even against the hostility of the federal government, some other governors were playing the politics of good boys with the coronavirus pandemic.
There are indications that the NGF may be increasing the risks in Nigeria with the listed suggestions since the Presidential Task Force has brazenly mismanaged the coronavirus pandemic and has lost the confidence of Nigerians.
Moreover, Fayemi in his letter, was silent on what palliatives are governments offering Nigerian citizens during the period of lockdown. After the Wednesday meeting, it was reported that the NGF and the presidency agreed to extend the lockdown into two more weeks. The president and the Nigerian governors may deliberately be punishing citizens with further lockdown. Many are arguing that if the government cannot provide for citizens during the emergency period, people should be allowed to move out and provide for themselves.
Meanwhile, stakeholders of goodwill are getting perturbed why should the Nigeria Governors Forum send a letter to President Buhari directly to the Secretary to the Federal Government, worsening the suspicion, referencing the SGF to a meeting with Vice President Osinbajo. There are fears that the presidency appears to be manipulated by a new cabal ‘regime’ since the death of Abba Kyar