South Africa has adopted aggressive approach in the fight against the dreaded coronavirus ravaging countries of the world. The country first deployed the capacity of its leadership, reinforced by technically competent individuals appointed into public institutions rather than appointments on political patronage and rewards.
Report indicated that South Africa seems to have acted faster, more efficiently, and more ruthlessly than many countries around the world. The report maintained that leading the fight in South Africa  against Covid-19, President Cyril Ramaphosa has emerged as a formidable leader – composed, compassionate, but seized by the urgency of the moment and wasting no time in imposing tough restrictive measures and galvanising crucial support from the private sector.
The Minister of Health in South Africa, Zweli Mkhize, was also said to demonstrated no-nonsense, energetic performance in the coronavirus fight, in addition to his sober, deeply knowledgeable, daily briefings.
It was gathered that one week into South Africa’s nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the country is beginning to have a sigh of relief with remarkable achievements.
The South African government created 67 mobile testing units; within one week, over 47,000 people have been tested. The government is not waiting until anyone develops symptoms and report to designated centres, the South African government is taking the process to the people through drive-through testing centres. It was indicated that South Africa has developed the capacity to test 30,000 people daily.
Update statistics shows that South Africa has recorded about 1,400 cases that have tested positive for Covid-19. However, five deaths have been confirmed.
Report further indicated that security operatives have been violent in enforcing the three weeks nationwide lockdown in South Africa. The police and army were said to have been chaotic, harassing, humiliating, beating, torturing and even shooting civilians on the streets of the commercial capital, Johannesburg, and elsewhere, in enforcing the stay at home order of the government.
The South African government operates with effectiveness, precision, conscious of uncertainty, and proactiveness.
Accordingly, South Africans enforced the first lockdown week with strictness – no jogging on the road side or street, no sale of alcohol or cigarettes, no dog-walking, no leaving home except for essential trips and prison – otherwise heavy fines will be imposed for law-breaking.
The Health Minister, Dr. Mkhize, consistently cautioned against complacency; admonishing the country that there are profound dangers of becoming complacent.
The Minister advocated that they need to move fast, reiterating that if there is outburst or loss of control, they may not have time to put in place facilities they cannot establish now.
Dr Mkhize, at official launch of a new batch of mobile laboratories on Wednesday was cited to have declared: “What we may currently be experiencing is the calm before a heavy and devastating storm.
“Unless we move fast, we will soon be swarmed. There will, therefore, be no further warning before the pounding descends upon us.
“There will not be time to prepare what we will not have put in place in the next seven days.”
Dr Mkhize had acknowledged that coronavirus has already started spreading in the country, noting: “we don’t as yet have a true picture of the size of the problem.”
There were indications that the real test of the South Africa health system is yet to begin but the government has taken effective early control measures.
In Nigeria, though, there has been reports of recoveries and discharge of patients, the country is still behind in the capacity to contain an outburst. The federal government appears to be pre-occupied with the present and thinking less about the future or uncertainty.
The selective lockdown is being restricted to Lagos and Ogun states, including the FCT by the federal government. However, several governors have shut down their states while a few still allows free movement.
The Nigerian government has established only seven test centres to serve the 36 states and the FCT. The Minister of Health, Ehinare, at the National Press Briefing in Abuja on Thursday revealed that the country has now developed the capacity to test 2,000 persons in a day, when South Africa has developed capacity for 30,000 tests daily.

			
			PV: 
			0