The world is still stunned why the medical doctor, Dr. Ai Fen, who first discovered coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, Mainland China, then, raised alarm of the global threat of the virus has been missing since then.
The missing doctor in Wuhan, Ai Fen, was critical how China was handling the coronavirus outbreak and concealing information.
Ai Fen was Director of the Emergency Unit at Wuhan Central Hospital.
It was gathered that Dr. Ai was the first doctor in China to discover a group of patients showing symptoms of intense flu in Wuhan over a month before China decided to confirm coronavirus outbreak. The infection was already spreading wide before China admitted its occurrence.
She had in March revealed that the Chinese government was cruel to her when she disclosed to the world that the coronavirus infection may spread across the world if China delays urgent intervention to contain the spread.
She was said to have displayed a picture of a patient reporting a SARS-like coronavirus on WeChat, China’s most popular messaging app used by over 1 billion people.
The image Ai had gone viral. It was gathered that Dr. Li Wenliang, the whistleblower doctor, had access to the video and endeavoured to alert the first warning on the coronavirus outbreak. Li Wenliang was blackmailed by China’s propaganda machines, which branded him a liar and did not know what he was talking.
Police were said to have compelled him to desist from “making false comments.”
Coronavirus later killed Dr. Li Wenliang on February 7 after he was infested working at Wuhan Central Hospital.
However, the whereabouts of Dr. Ai Fen, who first discovered coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, still remains uncertain.
In protest of the perennial suppression of opposition voices in China, it was declared: “Just two weeks ago, the head of Emergency at Wuhan Central Hospital, went public, saying authorities had stopped her and her colleagues from warning the world. She has now disappeared, her whereabouts unknown.”
President Xi Jinping and the Communist Party of China, were said to have developed reputation for ‘silencing key critics’ in China. A source revealed that “many people who have spoken out against the government have been detained while others were never heard from again.”
China has been under attack by the United Kingdom (UK), United States (US) and others for misinformation on coronavirus at the early stage of outbreak which now made countries of the world vulnerable to the uncontrollable spread of coronavirus and the associated deaths.

			
			PV: 
			0