UEFA Champions League trophy is undoubtedly the apex of club football.
Liverpool have remarkably emerged a six time winners of the Champions League to the envy of most football clubs.
The Merseyside who are the current champions of Europe conquered their English side rivals Tottenham to rule the European club football.
Amazingly, National Daily gathered that Trent Alexander-Arnold who was pivotal in Liverpool’s latest feat has revealed that he has not watched back last season’s Champions League Final win over Tottenham while declaring further that he doesn’t believe he ever will.
Trent Arnold has been instrumental to Liverpool’s recent successful stories
The Liverpool’s homegrown England right-back has remained a key performer in the Reds European Cup quests lately especially in 2018-19, culminating in the 2-0 win over Spurs in Madrid, having also played in the loss to Real Madrid in Kiev the previous year.
The formidable youngster has since gone from strength-to-strength for club and country, adding European Super Cup and World Club Cup medals to his collection in the last 10 months.
National Daily can confirm that Trent Arnold is one player who dislikes disappointment going by his revelation to The Red Bulletin.
“I’d say disappointment stays with you a lot longer than the joy of a game,” Alexander-Arnold discloses.
“In the end you’ve just got to put it past you.
“I wouldn’t rewatch a game just to get some joy out of it; to think, ‘Oh yeah, I had a good game.’ There are certain games I’ve never seen, like [last year’s] Champions League final. I’ve never felt the need.
“The most important thing is recalling the emotions I felt, and the celebrations with my family and the fans.”
Liverpool have been waiting 30 years to get their hands on a 19th English league title.
As a Scouser and boyhood fan himself, Alexander-Arnold is well aware of the wait the club’s supporters have had to endure.
But he insists that, unlike those who stand on the Kop, joy will not be his main emotion when the Reds take the championship back to Anfield
Rather, it will be the hunger for more.
“You have your little bit of joy and you’re in the moment, but as soon as we were able to just go home, it was, ‘How can we do it again? How can we keep doing this?’
“If you look at players who have won everything, like [Cristiano] Ronaldo or [Lionel] Messi, you don’t see them resting and thinking, ‘This is enough.’
“I could never imagine that anything would stop that hunger.”

			
			PV: 
			0