Covid-19, until lately, had been wrongly assumed to be white men’s disease—or rich men’s problem.
The first few cases in Nigerians were those of jet-set, globe-trotting citizens, government officials, politically exposed persons, and their contacts.
Comments online and offline reveal the depth of hatred many of the governed have for those in government.
And when Covid-19 struck this class of people, many Nigerians were quick to say,” Serves them right.”
No fewr than 10 public figures have come down with virus. Some have recovered; some are yet to; others are still active; while some are silent.
The lionhearts among them have asked Nigerians, especially the cold comforters, to go to Jericho—or keep those hearts and flowers.
Here’s a rank of the public office holders Nigeirans kind of hate to love, and how these Covid-sick poobahs don’t give a hoot about well wishes.
CoS Abba Kyari
He tested positive March 24, and a torrent of comments, ranging from wicked to half-hearted, greeted the news. But the presidential go-to guy told Nigerians he was ok—that he would take care of himself, and would not burden their health system—that they should obey NCDC instructions in their own interest.
“I have not experienced high fever or other symptoms associated with this new virus and have been working from home,” he said in a press release March 29. “I hope to be back at my desk very soon.”
That was the last Nigerians heard from him. And he hasn’t got back to Aso Rock 24 days after.
 
Kaduna Gov. Nasir el-Rufai
Because of his management of the southern Kaduna crisis over the years, the 60-year-old APC governor has raked up a lot of bad feeling from many. He knows it—that he’s not in their good book. But he will be the last one to be shaking in his boots when he tested positive March 28.
He announced the result calmly, urged his cabinet to hold the fort, and, lately, spurned all the soap operas some well-wishers were creating on social media.
‘I have not recovered yet, and the news of my recovery is fake, even if that is what you wish for,” he said slam-bang on Wednesday.
It’s been about 14 days. Other governors—Seyi Makinde and Bala Mohammed—who also tested positive about the same time as el-Rufai have sprung back, having recovered.
So Nigerians are raring to hear the Kaduna first citizen’s status.
 
Mohammed Atiku-Abubakar
The son of former V.P Atiku Abubakar was out to France and Switzerland on business trip when he caught the bug March 23—shortly before Nigeria closed the air border.
Misinformation and fake news by those who think they know Mohammed well first pitted him against a lot more Nigerians.
But, April 2, Mohammed, from the Gwagalada hospital he is quarantined, defied the cold feeling some Nigerians had for him, and posted a video explaining he was still as hard as a nail in spite of his positive status. And he tried in the video to be as patronising as he could be. “I decided to make this video so I can talk about my experience and I hope it will be of value to people out there, Nigerians in particular,” he said in the video his father shared on Twitter.  “I’ve been here for about twelve days and I hope to be out soon.”
It’s about four weeks now. No news—news that could leave his enemies gob-smacked.

			
			PV: 
			0