Pastor Chris
        
 


BY: IFEANYI IZEZE
Ordinarily, it would have been better to stay comment on the barrage of attacks against the President of Loveworld Incorporated, Rev Chris Oyakhilome, popularly referred to as Pastor Chris, on his message on the 5G internet technology and the corona virus pandemic as well as ‘things that will shortly be’ but for the now vexing deliberate obfuscation of the facts of what he said and did not say.
Is it not tragic that the barrage of smear against the pastor has been coming largely from the same body of Christ he was trying to warn and even rescue from the covert agenda of the devil? How do you explain that? What is consoling though is that none of those attacking him including some preachers of the gospel have bothered to disagree that his teaching using the same Bible available to every believer in Christ was a fairytale.
ALSO READ Over 3 billion join Pastor Chris and Benny Hinn to pray against covid 19 global challenge
You don’t agree with the posit of your brother in Christ and a fellow preacher of the same gospel you bear and the best place for you to lash out on him was through the media. Haba! You make all sorts of attempts as known preachers of the same gospel not only to discredit your fellow servant of God but to turn even unbelievers against him and his ministry? Check yourself well on what you believe and teach the souls God assigned to you to nurture.
Now, despite the deliberate attempts to twist Pastor Chris’ comments on the relationship between the 5G Internet Technology and the ongoing global Covid-19 pandemic, let us even look at the smear that’s being dished out to the public.
Did Pastor Chris ever say 5G is corona virus? No! So where did these opposing preachers got that from if not to deliberately smear and pitch him against the people? Rather he explained that the rolling out of 5G and the corona pandemic are two different modules of the same scheme. The video is there in the public domain to crosscheck.
What he said without mincing words was that 5G has a very dangerous effect on the human body but those who are behind its creation are not doing enough proper research on how to mitigate or even completely stop the dangerous effect of this technology rather they are just about its benefits.
He expressed his suspicion that the death recorded in China (Wuhan Province) may not really be corona virus caused rather it might be the fallout of the deployment of the 5G internet technology.
Whether the critics want to accept this or not, it is a fact that Christ Embassy has one of the largest internet multimedia platform and App content employing the highest level of technology to reach billions of people around the globe, on every available media format. This is in addition to uncountable ministry websites and mobile applications for different departments and functions.
Christ Embassy owns about five functional Satellite Television channels including the Loveworld USA, Loveworld Plus, Loveworld Sat, Loveworld TV UK, and Loveworld MENA (Middle East and North Africa). All of these satellite stations can be viewed on the internet.
The Rhapsody of Realities, the most widely distributed daily devotional in the world today, is downloadable in more than 1000 translations, and is available and read in almost every country or territory of the world.
Go and dispute that, if you wish.
So, if there will be anyone, much willing and much eager to embrace the 5G technology, it will be Pastor Chris because 5G internet connectivity obviously will be more attractive to effectively manage all these ministry platforms.
Does any of the critics have any doubt that all these things happening now is showing how close we (The Church) are to the rapture? Are they contending that the push for the idea to insert a chip in everyone through vaccination is one of the actualization of the agenda of the Antichrist which are: One World Government; One World Economy and; One World Religion?
If this is clearly stated in the same Bible that both Pastor Chris and these other preachers use, how come none of the critics showing any level of concern on the covert arrangement or they don’t believe it’s true? What does Ezekiel Chapter 33 verse 6 means to them?
ALSO READ Pastor Chris Oyakhilome donates tuition free school, health centre to community
God told Ezekiel, “Son of man, I have made you a watchman…….  Is it no longer the duty of a watchman to warn the people of impending danger? How does God use the role of a watchman to warn and teach? If none of these critics has any doubt about this, so what wrong did Pastor do by opening the eyes of the believers to these facts?
How do you explain that rather than see Pastor Chris’ revelations and the subsequent organizing of global prayers for Christians (with over 3 billion people participating) to come together and stop the plan of the devil ahead of his time, it has since been a barrage of attacks not from unbelievers, no, but from the very household of faith that is supposed to be concerned about the unfolding agenda? So how do we hope to haul souls into the kingdom if we don’t love one another?
Can any of the critics come out to disagree that this proposed vaccine implant with digital identification is not supposed to be happening now rather till after the rapture of the church? We know that this plan would be carried out in full effect where laws would be made to force people to get the vaccination which is the introduction of the chip (Mark of the beast) but should not be allowed to happen until the church is gone. Pastor Chris to me only opened our eyes to the truth in the gospel.
All I can see is exactly the Prophet’s experience in Daniel chapter 10 verse 7 when a thing was revealed only to the Man of God Daniel. “ And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that were with me saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, so that they fled to hide themselves.”
There is no doubt something was revealed to the Man of God Pastor Chris and on the basis of that he has warned his spiritual children and the Church of Jesus Christ at large. So, let he that has an ear hear and those with a discerning heart understand what the Spirit is saying to The Churches.
The earlier the body of Christ understood the character of the adversary – the devil, the better for the ministry of reconciliation which God committed to their trust. God bless you all.

			
			PV: 
			0