Meet Sports Administrator who survived COVID-19 ,Former Ogun State Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Bukola Olopade has thumbed up the tireless efforts of Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dapo Abiodun of Lagos and Ogun States and the Federal Government respectively in containing the spread of pandemic he spoke to National Daily Esther Egbe about his experience  and more.
Could you please explain the feeling and how it was like for you during the period you tested positive for the Coronavirus and when your result returned negative twice to get that clean bill of health? Tell us how it all went?
It was a tale of excitement that I tested negative for the second time consecutively because I had tested negative before but a positive test result tainted that and it was very psychological torture for me and after the 16, 17 and running into the day 18 day I had to really struggle mentally because it was upsetting to note that I had tested negative and I later tested positive but when eventually on day 20 the result came back negative on the back of  the negative of Day 19 it was a thing of joy and to go God be the glory I was discharged on day 21 and the rest, as they say, is to God be the glory.
How did you feel at 50? Looking back at all bridges you have passed through in life, tell us your plans going forward?
Am grateful to God for keeping me alive. I want to empower youths in sports.
Congratulations on your victory over Corona Virus. A lot of Nigerians still do not believe COVID-19 is real, if you are to send a message to these people, what would your message be?
Coronavirus is real.My testing positive to the deadly virus was heart-wrenching but that he quickly summoned up the courage to submit myself to get the medical solution to my problem. The transition period of waiting for the result was surreal and quiet and expectant because I had been in isolation already as at that time.The reality is that you must be up and doing if it is yet to come to your area. I pray it doesn’t come to your area but the truth is that it might still come. You just have to be prepared and ready to fight it and protect your people.
Covid-19 and has since urged Nigerians to stay at home and observe all Coronavirus guidelines to stay safe.
What are the symptoms of Covid-19 and at what point should a patient seek medical help?
The reality of the result made me sick because in as much as I was prepared for anything and in as much as I always thought that there was a possibility of anybody catching this virus especially those of us who are prone to having the flu. I didn’t still really expect for a positive result to come but it was a reality check when the result came. I had to quickly gather myself together and leave the house so that I do not infect the other people in the house. I submitted myself to the IDH team in Yaba for a medical solution to the problem.
How do you intend to fund the Medical Hero’s Foundation in a bid to support the welfare of medical workers in Nigeria?
Am in the process of floating a foundation named Medical Hero’s Foundation in a bid to support the welfare of medical workers in Nigeria.
If given the offer to return to the NNL, will you turn it down?  during the period you served/worked as CEO of the NNL, will you say that bad officiating as claimed by many clubs, was a major problem of the league?
Of course not I won’t, I resigned on principle and I don’t think what I resigned for has been resolved and my life challenge is different now, for football I just want to be a club owner that is empowering young boys, creating a way of life and of course doing business with it.That is the role I want to play in football, be a club owner and just continue doing my thing as a way of supporting the development of football ,but I don’t want to administer football. I really don’t see it as crisis, it is lack of funding, once there is funding the league will continue.The league would have gotten so far if there was funding ,but I’m trusting that the NFF led board by my brother Amaju Melvin Pinnick will get a solution to the problem so that the league will continue bad people will get to do what they want to do.
What first came to your mind when you tested positive to Covid-19. Did you ever think that probably your enemy will die because of the disease? Also, how was the isolation center, were you given the food of your choice or just any food?
When I got to the hospital, it was a situation of mixed feelings. There I had to stay with about 14 people. It was disturbing to me but I was quick to adapt because I literally found out that they were very nice gentlemen who have now become my friends and brothers for the rest of our life I hope.
It was an amazing meeting with them but the reason why I asked to be in the tent was because of the toilet. The fact that I will be sharing the toilet with 14 different people did upset me. But to God be the glory I was moved to a private ward after two days where I spent the next three weeks before I finally tested negative twice.
The statistics we receive on daily basis regarding the surge in reported cases of Coronavirus in Nigeria from the NCDC  is staggering. Honestly Sir, do you think various states is doing enough to contain the spread of the virus in their respective domains and how soon do you think the battle can be won around the globe?
The effort of the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari for the fast pace with which the National Council for Disease Control (NCDC) has gone to ensure that they trace and get people tested to halt community transmission.  I believe strongly that two Governors really stand out very well in this fight against the Coronavirus Pandemic. I have always said that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has shown that he is a wartime Governor.He has exceedingly shown that his leadership is exemplary. The way he has tackled this has given me comfort that Lagos State is actually doing its best to contain, treat people and to save lives. The other Governor is Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun who aslo  believe through scientific development and so many other means is actually fighting this pandemic and continuing it very effectively. I believe to a large extent that the two States that are of serious concern are actually fighting it. I believe the NCDC started very slowly but they have got their acts together and are now doing very well to trace and get people to be tested. Nobody has said this is going to be a simple job it is obviously a tough job that they are doing.”
You have a very difficult job on your hands, as Nilayo Sports Mgt Ltd is a Team Nigeria’s Official Marketer for the Tokyo Olympics. With Corona Virus set to crash economies, how would you drive this?
It’s even more important we come together to support our athletes. I and my team are already working and we’ve not stopped working. Even while I was at the hospital, we have meetings online.
What spurred you to venture into marathon race in Nigeria? Is there a possibility that organisers of the Abeokuta, Sagamu and Access bank marathons will postpone or cancel this year’s event if the Corona virus pandemic stays beyond July?
We are looking at the good side of the COVID-19 pandemic to get it right for our athletes and various plan B being put together by his team ahead of various marathon races in the country.We will ensure that we put strategize together to ensure we sell the Nigeria concept to potential sponsors and people who support team Nigeria.