Former NFF President Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdullahi has appreciated Nigerians for enduring the pains of the Conoravirus pandemic, saying that joy will surely follow at the end.
Lulu in a thank you message to Nigerians who celebrated him on his 62nd birthday, said this period is a very enduring one for the human race, saying that the pandemic will soon be over and full activities return to the world.
The former Gubernatorial aspirant in Kogi State appreciated Nigerians for their various birthday messages, saying that such has given him confidence that Nigerians really appreciated his services to his fatherland,  promising not to relent in his service to humanity, especially the indigent. He implored Nigerians to remain steadfast in their prayers, and observing all the precautionary measures towards remaining safe at this period.
Meanwhile, in a birthday message to the Omachi Atah of Igalaland, the players of his pet program  FOSLA Football Club of Abuja , appreciated the former  FCT Director of Sports for giving them life and properly empowering for the future.
In the message signed  by the Captain, Andrew Onyeke (Jnr)  on behalf of the players of FOSLA FC, they expressed their joy that their Chairman Alhaji Sani Lulu, Mr Fix is celebrating @62
They said “everyday is your birthday because your are an inspiration to all of us and to others who have come in contact with you”.
“There is no gain saying the obvious that your past six decades on earth have been spent impacting, nurturing and grooming the society via purposeful leadership, education and football”.
“Your passion for football, probity and personality charisma are eloquent testimonies of your commitment to change the face of life for better”.
“You have distinguished yourself in various capacities both as public and private individual and like a lamp in the night, you have expelled darkness and illuminated light in the lives of so many”
They said they joined all Nigerians to celebrate him today and always.
It could be recalled that the 35 registered players of the FOSLA Football Club, a Nationwide One clubside are all Undergraduate Students of Nasarawa State University, Keffi.  They have been on the scholarship of FOSLA Academy through their Secondary education.
.

			
			PV: 
			0