President Muhammadu Buhari may be justifying the call by Senator Eyinaya Abaribe on Wednesday for his resignation over rising insecurity in the country with his  convening of security meeting with the various service chiefs and some principal officers in the presidency at the State House, Abuja, on Thursday, less than 24 hours after Senator Abaribe called for his resignation over the intractable security crisis in Nigeria.
It was gathered that the governors of Borno, Kaduna and Adamawa states attended the security meeting.
The National Assembly on Wednesday devoted time to deliberations on the security crisis in Nigeria. At the end of deliberations, both chambers of the National Assembly were of the conclusion that the serviced chiefs have failed. While the Senate passed vote of no confidence on the service chiefs, the House of Representatives demanded the resignation of the service chiefs, which the senators also agreed.
Abaribe had in the debate articulated that Nigerians ‘voted’ Buhari to be president based on his promise on security to protect lives and property. He argued that the government that was voted into power has failed to perform its functions and, therefore, should resign.
The call for Buhari’s resignation precipitated indecent reactions from the presidency as though President Buhari and the principal officers in his office are benefiting from the killing of Nigerians. However, the president’s meeting with the service chiefs may appear that he has justified Abaribe’s demand despite the uncoordinated reactions from the presidency.
Reports indicated that those in attendance at the meeting include the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno; Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan- Ali, Chief of Defence Staff, Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai; and the Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok Ekwe Ibas;  Chief of Air Staff, Abubakar Sadique, Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar, acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the Director General of Department for State Service (DSS), Yusuf Bichi.

			
			PV: 
			0