Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has developed the framework for the sinking of the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, in the state. The governor has set up a panel that may have to expose the hidden corruption of the former Edo State governor.
Thus, Edo State Government on Tuesday constituted a Commission of Inquiry to the construction of the Specialist Hospital and supply of hospital equipment for the hospital with clear mandate.
Members of the Commission include: Hon. Justice J.U. Oyomire (rtd), Chairman; Prof. Emmanuel E. Obaseki-Ebor, member; Mrs. Elizabeth Uwaifo, member; Enenaku Hilary Igemoh Esq., member; and Anthony Izevbekhae Esq., Secretary.
The public announcement signed by Osarodion Ogie Esq., Secretary to the State Government, indicated that the appointment was with immediate effect.
The terms of reference of the Commission of Inquiry were listed as follows:
1.To conduct a detailed inquiry into the processes leading to the conceptualization, design, construction and equipping of the Benin Specialist Hospital Extension (originally) designated Accident and Emergency Unit) and determine if same were in breach of the Edo State Procurement Law and other extant laws and procedures in that regard.

To inquire into the process of tendering for, execution and payment for all contracts arising from and/or connected with the Benin Specialist/Central Hospital extension and to determine if such payment(s) were made in compliance with extant laws.

3.To verify the exact details and dates of construction carried out on the project and equipment supplied on the Hospital project and to determine if same were in line with the contract stipulations and timeliness.
4.To identify any losses and/or damages incurred or suffered by the Edo State Government and to further identify all persons responsible for such losses or damages.
5.To make appropriate recommendations for such disciplinary civil or criminal sanctions to be meted out against any person found to be responsible for such losses or damages suffered by the Edo State Government arising from failure to follow extant law and procedures.
6.To make recommendations to Government to prevent a recurrence of such breaches, losses or damages in the future.
7.To make such further recommendations to the Government as may be considered by the Commission.
However, the time frame the Commission will make its inquiry was not specified. It is obvious that the incumbent governor may be going for the head of his predecessor.

			
			PV: 
			0