Presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) in the 2019 presidential election, Kingsley Mogahlu, has revealed the kind of leader that will take Nigeria out of its present predicament.
The former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) who disclosed this via his Twitter handle, @MoghaluKingsley, on Saturday, said what the country needed most at the moment is the emergence of a national leader with a real worldview.
“What we need most in Nigeria is the emergence of a NATIONAL leader with a real worldview. This type of leader will necessarily have intellectual depth, philosophical reflection, and practical leadership ability to inspire, motivate and provide guidance to Nigerians. In a radical departure from our present and past experience, he or she will be able to appeal to our enlightened, collective interest, to “the better angels of our nature”. Historically, great leaders have had this ability.”
“From America’s Abraham Lincoln to Britain’s Winston Churchill and Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew, from China’s Deng Xiaoping to Malaysia’s Mahathir Mohammed, from Botswana’s Seretse Khama to Mauritius’s Ameena Gurib-Fakih.
“The countries led by these great men’s and women have been built and developed on the basis of worldviews that could be clearly identified. Given our own tortured past and present and the possibilities before us, a leader with a worldview of radical transformation in the direction of national unity, economic development, and our place inthe world is now needed in our country. My vision of how to reinvent Nigeria as a worldview state rests on the following steps.”
Moghalu recommended that Nigeria established a simple, short and profound Worldview Charter entitled “One Nation, One Destiny”
“I know, this was the motto of National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in the Second Republic, but the wording is only a coincidence! This document should be prepared by a committee of relevant intellectuals drawn from the fields of philosophy, history, literature, law, sociology, economics, sciences and business, and including youth and women. It should be a short, easily understandable document of not more than two pages that addresses the following issues.”
According to him, a determination to recreate a united nation by building on the strength of Nigeria’s diverse and dynamic people, and an expressed regret about the loss of millions of lives in the Nigerian Civil War would be a good place to start the nation’s healing.
 

			
			PV: 
			0