The National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday vehemently protested the Tuesday judgement of the Supreme Court  which annulled the election of Governor Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP and declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the governorship election in Imo State by fiat without provable election result figures.
The PDP at a press conference addressed by the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, in Abuja, protested that record shoes that the votes analysis from the Imo governorship election as at March 11, 2019 when the results were declared were as follows:
-Total Accredited Votes: 823,743
-Total Valid Votes: 739,485
-Cancelled Votes: 25, 130
-Total Valid Votes: 714,355
The Party decried that at the Supreme Court the Total Valid Votes increased to 950,952, noting that this accounts for 127, 209 votes in excess of Total Accredited Votes of 823,743.
PDP then questioned where the Supreme Court got the figures to declare Uzodinma/APC winner from a paltry 96,456 votes over Ihedioha/PDP votes of 276,404.
The PDP argued that even if all the excess accredited votes of 127,209 manufactured by the Supreme Court were added to Uzodinma/APC it will be 223,657 votes, still less than Ihedioha’s votes of 276,494 by 42,747 votes. The party also protested that the Supreme Court made it that APC secured all the votes in the claimed 388 polling units, no other party got single vote.
PDP further pointed out that there was only one accreditation for the governorship and House of Assembly elections across Nigeria, Imo State inclusive. PDP stated that APC did not win any of the 27 seats in the Imo State House of Assembly which were won as follows:
PDP won 13
AA won 8
APGA won 6
APC won 0
Total 27
“The above further questions and confronts the rationale for the judgment of the Supreme Court on Imo State.
“How then did the Supreme Court arrive at its decision to allocate results to void a lawful governorship election and imposed an unelected person as governor?
“The fact is that, the Supreme Court, as presently constituted under Justice Tanko, has lost its credibility and no longer commands the respect and confidence of Nigerians.
“If the people no longer repose confidence in the Supreme Court, then, our democracy, national cohesion and stability are at great risk,” PDP declared. The Party, therefore, demanded the review and reversal of the judgment.
The PDP alleged that the Supreme Court has been compromised and has become an annex of the APC. The Party also alleged that there is grand plot for APC to capture all states PDP won from the ruling party in the 2019 general elections.
The PDP, therefore, demanded that “Justice Tanko Mohammed immediately steps down as CJN and chairman of the National Judicial Council as Nigerians have lost confidence in him and a Supreme Court under his leadership.
“Justice Tanko must not head the panel to determine the remaining election petitions before the Supreme Court.”














			
			PV: 
			0