Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia state has replied a former chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, over a statement that governors under the platform of the PDP are lobbying to be in the good books of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The former Deputy Spokesman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Timi Frank, had queried why Governor Ikpeazu should be part of President Buhari’s to the UK when his party, the PDP is having an emergency NEC meeting.
But governor Ikpeazu, through his Special Adviser on Media, Enyinnaya Appolos, reminded the former APC chieftain that there is time for politics, and time for governance.
Appolos, patiently outlined reasons the Governor had to join President Buhari in the London trip the day the PDP held its emergency NEC meeting in Abuja.
“As earlier said, according to the Bible, for everything, there is a time. The time for frontline party politics is over, the time we are in now, particularly for Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in Abia, is the time for governance. I hope Timi understands this?
“Yes, Governor Ikpeazu is part of the Nigerian delegation led by Mr President, to the maiden UK- AFRICA INVESTMENT SUMMIT in London, United Kingdom.
According to him, the arrangement for the trip had long been concluded before the controversial and unfair ruling of the Supreme Court that sacked Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as Governor of Imo State took place. It was the sad judicial development that provoked the emergency PDP NEC meeting at about the same time Governor Ikpeazu was airborne to the UK.
“In case Timi is not aware, Governor Ikpeazu is not on the President Buhari-led delegation to the maiden UK- AFRICA INVESTMENT SUMMIT holding in London because he wants to enjoy the comfort of the presidential jet, but the Scholar-in-Governance Governor of Abia State is on the delegation because he is the bearer of one of the most important reasons Nigeria is part of the summit – the Enyimba Economic City Project.
“At the UK summit, the British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, will be hosting African leaders, International Business Chief Executives and Heads of International Organizations, to create new partnerships that will deliver more investments and jobs to the benefit of people and businesses in African countries and the UK.
“Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, as the initiator of the Enyimba Economic City project will speak to selected potential investors, on the invitation of the Department for International Development (DFID), on the need to key into the project situated in Aba.
“The UK- AFRICA INVESTMENT SUMMIT has presented, yet, another opportunity for Governor Ikpeazu to speak, expound and present the Enyimba Economic City project at the world stage,” he said.





			
			PV: 
			0