Former President of the Senate, and former Governor of Kwara State, Dr. Bukola Saraki, has drawn the battle line with Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq over the attack on the father’s legacy and demolition of his property.
The former Senate President cautioned the governor that he fears no human but only Allah. He stated that all the attacks on his person and family have not moved or shaken him, making him maintain silence. Saraki, however, vowed that the unnecessary affront on his father will not be tolerated from the governor. He declared that Governor Abdulrazaq has definitely gone beyond bounds, insisting that in the war against his father, Oloye Olusola Saraki, the governor cannot win.
Saraki in a statement declared: “it is well known to the Governor that I fear nobody, except Almighty Allah, the ultimate owner of all powers. With all his subterranean and open moves against my family, person and property, I remain unmoved. However, his open antagonism against my late father and his legacies is unwarranted and will not be tolerated. He has definitely gone beyond bounds as he cannot be allowed to ride roughshod on the deceased. In this war against my late father, he will not win.
“The Governor has shown that he is not a man who wants peace, cooperation and development. He believes that a constant attack on my family and I is all that he needs to win the hearts of Kwara people. The need to provide good governance is secondary to him.
“However, it should be made clear to Abdulrazaq and his administration that their attack on my late father cannot erase the legacies of Oloye. No evil design, negative plot or propaganda can successfully rewrite the history of Kwara State. This plot against my late father will not stand. And I will like to make it clear that we will contest the petty, malicious, dubious and bias action of a parochial, vicious and vindictive administration through all legal means. We are sure this is not an action taken in public interest. It is done in pursuit of a selfish and devious objective.”
It is obvious that  Governor Abdulrazaq will have a tough battle to fight for his action in his struggle to entrench his hegemony of Kwara politic.

			
			PV: 
			0