President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday renewed appeal for the unity of Nigerians to fight the Boko Haram terrorists in the northeast and not allow the terrorists to divide the country. The President also sought better understanding of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) over the sporadic violence perpetuated by the terrorists and bandits across the country.
President Buhari in a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, on Tuesday, acknowledged that the security forces of Nigeria are working continuously to return those taken hostage by Boko Haram to their families, friends and communities. He maintained that in doing this, the government has full confidence in their ability to accomplish the task.
The statement added that on its own part, government has condemned some of the appalling acts of terror, especially, following the festive period.
The president remarked: “Yet, to continue to see these happenings solely in religious terms – removed from social, economic and environmental factors – simplifies complexities that must be heeded.  Not seeing them as they should be is exactly what the terrorists and groups wish: they want Nigerians to see their beliefs as reason to turn against one another.
 
“On the contrary, Christians and Muslims alike are united in their opposition to Boko Haram and the hatred for decency that the infamous group stands for.”
 
He, therefore, appealed that Nigerians must continue to be united in ensuring that they do not subscribe to the terrorists’ message of division; decrying: “Unfortunately, some leaders and politicians seek to make political capital from our religious differences.” He, however, maintained: “ As we fight Boko Haram on the ground, so too must we tackle their beliefs: stability and unity in face of their hatred is itself a rejection of their worldview.”
 
President Buhari assured that the government shall never tolerate religious intolerance. “We clearly and unambiguously restate our support for the freedom to practice whichever belief you wish. The politicisation of religion – as forbidden by the constitution – has no place in Nigeria,” he declared.

			
			PV: 
			0