The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday lamented that the judgment of the Supreme Court which adopted judicial process to review the governorship election result in Imo State and declared Hope Uzodinma governor-elect of the state contrary to the result announced by the INEC, has taken away the destiny of the people of Imo State. The party decried that the judgment subverted the will of the people and taken Away their choice of leader in the state.
PDP ion a statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary, expressed surprise at the judgment of the Supreme Court on the Imo State governorship election, describing it as yet another very sad commentary on the nation’s democratic order.
The Party found it difficult to understand how Senator Hope Uzodinma/APC, who came 4th in the March 9, 2019 governorship election, with 96,458 votes, will suddenly, by the token of the judgment of the Supreme Court, defeat Gov Emeka Ihedioha/PDP that scored 276,404 votes.
“In fact, the PDP and indeed, most Nigerians are still at a loss as to understand the basis upon which the Supreme Court arrived at its decision,” the statement read in part.
The PDP declared: “it is lamentable that the destiny of the people of Imo State is being taken from the governor they chose and voted for and handed over to individuals and a political party that do not have their blessing and mandate and which they rejected at the election.
“The people of Imo state are now confronted with the challenge of having a government that they cannot identify with and which cannot connect with them, having not emanated from them.
“Moreover, all the gains, including the development and stability already achieved by the people-based government, under Governor Emeka Ihedioha/PDP administration in the state are now heavily jeopardized.
“Indeed, the mournful and despondent ambience that now pervades in Imo state is a loud testimony that the judgment did not reflect the expectation of the people of Imo state as expressed at the polls.”
While recognising that the judgment of the Supreme Court is final, the PDP, however, urged all party stakeholders in the state to remain united and calm, and await further instruction from the national leadership on the very sad development.
 

			
			PV: 
			0