Nigeria’s top military brass on Friday briefed President Muhammadu Buhari on the security situation of the country at a Security Council at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, presided over by the President.
At the meeting, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar announced that two fighter helicopters and other military hardware earlier purchased to boost the ongoing fight against insurgency and banditry in the country have been delivered.

He added that the meeting appraised the security situation across the country and was satisfied with the progress being made.
“This meeting was called to critically evaluate what the Armed Force of Nigeria as well as other security and intelligence agencies are doing with regard to ensuring that the territorial integrity of Nigeria is not undermined by any individual or group of individuals.
“The appraisal also looked at the emerging situation in some of our areas particularly acts of banditry in some of the North-Western States and other parts of the country.


 in terms of procurement of platforms, substantial number of the equipment are expected by the end of February, adding that some of the equipment have started arriving.
“For the Nigerian Air Force, two helicopter gunships arrived on the Jan. 15 and we are now in the process of putting them together to add to whatever we have already.
“I am sure you are also familiar with the equipment acquisition by the Nigeria Police Force; I am sure you are also familiar with the policy on community policing that was approved by the President.
“It is going to be funded and the whole idea is to ensure that Nigeria is secured and citizens can go about pursuing their legitimate aspirations without any hindrance.’’
According to Abubakar, Nigeria is collaborating with its neighbours to completely end the Boko Haram insurgency.
“We are doing everything with other sister countries in the Lake Chad basin, working together to ensure that Boko Haram terrorism is brought substantially to an end as much and as quickly as possible,” he said.
He, however, appealed to all Nigerians to contribute their quota towards addressing security challenges troubling some parts of the country. “Our appeal is for all Nigerians and other stakeholders, local and state governments, to join hands with the Armed Forces of Nigeria to ensure that our country is secured rather than looking at other methods that are likely going to negate the national community policing policy that the federal government has approved.”
He assured that the nation security agencies were ready to contain all cases of insurgency or banditry in any part of the country, adding that the agencies would secure the lives and property of all citizens as well as the territorial integrity of the nation at all times.

			
			PV: 
			0