The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced massive shake-ups in its top management cadre, announcing new appointments, and also re-deploying some of its directors within its ranks.
In a statement released by the apex bank, Yusuf Philip Yila, a Director with the bank and Managing Director of NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB), has been redeployed to the position of Director, Development Finance Department, with effect from January 24, 2020. Yila succeeds Dr. Mudashiru Olaitan, who retires on January 26, 2020.
Born on November 20, 1972, Yila, joined the services of the CBN in June 2011 from Oando Plc where he was General Manager Operations for the downstream business. He holds a Bachelor of Engineering Degree in Electrical/Electronics, from the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) and is an Alumnus of the prestigious Harvard Business School, Boston.
Similarly, Mr. Abubakar Abdullahi Kure has been appointed to replace Mr. Yusuf Philip Yila as Acting Managing Director of NIRSAL Microfinance Bank.
Other redeployments include, Mr. Kofo Salam-Alada who was redeployed from the Consumer Protection Department to the Legal Services Department; Mr. Samuel Okojere from the Payment System Management to the Banking Services Department where he would replace Dipo Fatokun, who retired last December.
Meanwhile, the apex bank also made the following appointments: Clement Buari was appointed as Director Strategy Management Department; Haruna Mustafa, Director Consumer Protection; Bello Hassan, Director Other Financial Institutions’ Supervision Department; Dr. Ozoemena Nnaji, Director Trade and Exchange Department, and Mr. Musa Itopa Jimoh was appointed as Director Payment System Management.
Recall that the CBN had earlier replaced Mrs. Priscilla Ekwueme Eleje with Ahmed Bello Umar as director of Currency Operations Department. Mrs. Eleje was popular for becoming the first female Director of Currency in the history of the CBN and the first woman to append her signature on Nigeria’s banknotes.
Mrs. Priscilla Ekwueme Eleje exited the bank after reaching the statutory retirement age.

			
			PV: 
			0