The transfer of Bruno Fernandes to Manchester United has returned as another tussle in this January transfer window.
Meanwhile, the Red Devils fans have been left in a highly spirited mood as Bruno Fernandes finally broke his silence on his transfer to Old Trafford when he appeared to board a flight to finally seal his Man United move.
Highly spirited United fans awaiting Fernandes arrival to Old Traffor
There seem to be a breakthrough on the previous transfer deadlock after United launched a new and improved initial 46million bid last night plus add-ons which was accepted by the Portuguese side.
The Portuguese midfielder was asked by reporters from Portuguese broadcaster SIC outside his house to answer questions over his switch to the Red Devils.
And when asked if the Premier League was his preference, his response was: “It always was.”
Meanwhile, he did not appear to be in a talking mood because when further quizzed on United specifically, Fernandes simply added: “Anything really.”
Fernandes being quizzed about his United transfer by Portuguese broadcaster SIC
Report reaching National Daily reveals that Fernandes has already agreed to a four-and-a-half-year contract with the Red Devils and with the option to extend it by a further year.
And it appears he is heading to the club to put pen-to-paper on his transfer following a post uploaded to Instagram.
Close friend Carolina Deslandes revealed a picture of the duo standing in a lift with huge smiles alongside an aeroplane emoji.
Fernandes with close friend Carolina in a lift with huge smiles presumably heading to the airport
Presumably heading to the airport, he was stopped by reporters from Portuguese broadcaster SIC outside his house to answer questions over his switch to the Red Devils.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer will be hoping to have Fernandes at his disposal when his side hosts Wolves on Saturday as injuries to Paul Pogba and Scott McTominay have left him short of midfield options.
Solskjaer is hoping that Fernandes could help bring creativity in United’s midfield
More so, Fernandes’ arrival could also ease tensions among already agitated supporters at the club.
Meanwhile, Fernandes’ hopes of retaining his No 8 shirt he wears at Sporting are unlikely because it is already taken by Juan Mata.
The Portuguese could however make do with the available iconic No 7 shirt left vacant when Alexis Sanchez left on loan to Inter Milan. No 11 and No 18 are also available.
 

			
			PV: 
			0