A group in Lagos, Save Lagos Group (SLG), on Friday issued 24 hours ultimatum to the national leader of the  All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Governor of Lagos, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to declare his stand on Amotekun, a security structure set up by southwest governors in Yoruba land.
Convener of the group, Comrade Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman in a statement on Friday in Lagos, indicated that Tinubu cannot be silent on the issue, essentially, when he claims to be Asiwaju of Lagos in Yorubaland, yet, not making his position known on Amotekun.
Sulaiman, issuing Tinubu the 24 hours to declare his position to the people of Yorubaland, added that making such public declaration in supporting the legitimate security network “Amotekun” cannot deny Tinubu the chance of becoming Nigeria’s President 2023 as being threatened by the Maiyetti Allah. He maintained that God is the giver of power, adding that if Tinubu is destined to be the President of Nigeria in 2023, no human being can change the divine decision. Sulaiman cautioned that Tinubu may choose to be silent because he wants to be president, yet, he may not get it.
Sulaiman advocated that Yoruba leaders should unite to speak in one voice on the Amotekun issue. He commended Yoruba leaders and groups who have been loud in defending Amotekun for their courage. The leaders and groups include the Afenifere, Southern and Middle-Belt groups, Barrister Femi Falana SAN, Baba Ayo Adebanjo, Baba Reuben Fasoranti, Professor Woke Soyinka, Aare Ona Kankafo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adam, Baba Olu Falae, Yinka Odumakin and others.
He commended southwest governors for setting up Amotekun to tackle security crisis which include kidnapping, armed robbery, herdsmen killings, etc.
Sulaiman faulted the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, for declaring Amotekun illegal and threatening the use of full force of the law against anyone promoting Amotekun. “This Security Network (Amotekun) is legal, legitimate and lawful and it has come to stay like Civilian JTF, Hisbah Police and other legal security outfits established by State and Local Governments in Nigeria. The purported rejection of “Amotekun” by the Federal Government is unconstitutional and mockery of our tenets of federal Constitutional democracy,” Sulaiman declared.

			
			PV: 
			0