Because Edo APC is acting like it’s the only chapter in Nigeria by rejecting the peace committee the party set up, its governor and the state party executives are gradually getting on the nerves of important groups in the ruling party.
The Forum of State Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress said the effort of the party’s NEC—setting up a national reconciliation committee headed by Sen. President Ahmed Lawan—shows the sincerity of the National Working Committee to make peace in the on-going battle between Gov. Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor Adams Oshiomhole.
According to the chairman of the Forum, Edo is one state out of 36 states, and tere is one form of crisis or the other in all the other states of the federation.
“I’m sure that Edo State would not expect the other 35 states and Abuja to set aside their desire for peaceful resolution of all crises because Edo is not ready to allow external mediators to assist them in resolving their internal crisis,” Ben Nwoye told the Punch.
The chairmen urged the committee headed by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to set for work and ignore the camp of the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, which had raised objection to the membership of the committee.
The 10-man committee was set up December 8. It comprises the First (Interim) APC National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande,  appointed to serve as the Vice-Chairman with the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase, and the immediate past Nasarawa governor, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, as members.
Other members are, Senator Kashim Shettima, Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor; Alhaji Nasiru Aliko Koki; Senator Khairat Gwadabe-Abdulrazak; Senator Binta Garba and Senator John Enoh as Secretary.
This is the second time the Obaseki camp will reject peace committee effort.
The governor had earlier rejected the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje-led five-member Fact-finding Committee, raised in November on the crisis rocking the Edo APC.

			
			PV: 
			0