Manchester United have remained keen to secure the transfer of Bruno Fernandes since last summer transfer window

However, the Red Devils have suffered various degree of setback in their quest to complete the Portuguese midfielder’s transfer to the Old Trafford.
United have suffered series of setback on  Fernandes transfer to Old Trafford
The Sporting Lisbon midfielder has agreed terms with United, but the move has been held up over clauses in his current contract, as well as in the transfer agreement
Meanwhile, the latest report reaching National Daily is good enough to stir every United fan to celebration.

National Daily gathered that Bruno Fernandes has reportedly told a close friend that he is ‘confident’ he will complete a transfer to Manchester United in January.
The Red Devils fans can celebrate Fernandes determination to join United this January
Negotiations over the Sporting Lisbon midfielder’s proposed switch to Old Trafford have stalled this week.
National Daily further gathered from the report by The Record that a stipulation in Fernandes’s current contract entitles him to a £5million bonus – to be shared with his agent Miguel Pinho – should Lisbon receive an offer worth at least £50million for his services.
United are said to have lodged a bid of that amount as a guaranteed up front payment, with additional fees dependant on performance-related bonuses.
However Lisbon have now argued the add-ons are unrealistic, and want to push for a deal starting at £60m as an initial figure.
Sporting president Frederico Varandas has told United he is not prepared to let Fernandes go for less than that amount, but is willing to sanction a sale should the Red Devils increase their offer.
United have so far been reluctant to add more achievable clauses into the deal as they look to keep the price down.
But with other clubs weighing up a move for Fernandes in the summer, United chiefs are keen to seal the transfer this month.
Personal terms have already been agreed with the 25-year-old, who is equally desperate to complete his move to the Premier League, having seen a switch to Tottenham collapse on deadline day in August.
National Daily learnt that a close friend of Fernandes told The Record on Monday that the Portuguese international is confident an agreement will be reached.
 

			
			PV: 
			0