There was commotion in Lagos on Tuesday as Task Force has arrested commercial motorcycles and tricycles before the February 1st take off the government announced on Monday.
Many of the drivers were crying and lamenting as the Task Force Impounded the vehicles.
Lagos State Government announced that starting from February 1st, 2020, it would ban commercial motorcycles and tricycles in some six local government areas and nine local council development areas.
The ban however kicked off at Alakuko, Alagbado in Ojokoro LGA of Lagos state and arrested about 32 Okada and 18 tricycles on Tuesday. The raid continued in Ikeja and Agege,
A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotosho, said the government took the decision to ban the operation of Okada and tricycles due to the havoc they cause in those communities.
The statement reads: “After a robust assessment of the debate on what has been widely referred to as the Motorcycle (Okada) and Tricycle (Keke) Menace, the Lagos State Government and the State Security Council have decided that the security and safety of lives of Lagosians are paramount.
The figures are scary.
“From 2016 to 2019, there were over 10,000 accidents recorded at the General Hospitals alone. This number excludes unreported cases and those recorded by other hospitals. The total number of deaths from reported cases is over 600 as at date.
“The rate of crimes aided by Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) keeps rising. Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) are also used as getaway means by criminals.
“Therefore, after consultations with stakeholders, the State Security Council, in compliance with the extant Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, has decided to commence enforcement of the law which bans the operation of Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) in the following Local Governments (LGs) and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs):
Apapa LG and Apapa Iganmu LCDA
Lagos Mainland LG and Yaba LCDA
Surulere LG, Itire-Ikate and Coker-Aguda LCDAs
Ikeja LG, Onigbongbo and Ojodu LCDAs
Eti-Osa LG, Ikoyi-Obalende and Iru/Victoria Island LCDAs
Lagos Island LG and Lagos Island East LCDA
“The full enforcement begins on February 1, 2020.
“This is the first stage of the State Government’s plan to sanitize our roads and protect Lagosians from the negative effects of these illegal modes of transportation.
The Law is very clear. Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) are banned on all highways, bridges and the listed roads.
Major Highways

Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
Apapa-Oshodi Expressway
Oworonshoki-Oshodi Expressway
Lagos-Ikorodu Expressway
Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway
Third Mainland Bridge
Eti-Osa/Lekki-Epe Expressway
Lagos-Badagry Expressway
Funsho Williams Avenue
Agege Motor Road
Eti-Osa Lekki Coastal Road

Bridges

Iyana- Ipaja Bridge Agege
Dopemu Bridge Agege
Airport/Ikeja Bridge
Agege Motor road/oshodi Loop, Oshodi
Mushin/Isolo Link Bridge
Dorman Long Bridge
Ojuelegba Bridge
National Stadium Flyover
Apapa-Iganmu Bridge
Apapa-Ijora Link Bridge
Liverpool Bridge, Apapa
Mile 2 Bridge-Loop, Amuwo-Odofin
Okota (cele)/Ijesha Link Bridge
Apakun/Apapa-Oshodi Bridge Network
Ikorodu Road/Anthony Clover leaf Bridge
Trade Fair Flyover Bridge
Trade Fair Flyover Bridge
Festac/Amuwo-Odofin Link Bridge
2 Flyover Bridges along Alhaji Masha Road
Ojota Clover leaf Bridge
Ogudu Bridge
3rd Mainland Bridge
Maryland flyover
Ikeja General Hospital Flyover Bridge
Kodesoh Bridge, Oba Akran, Ikeja
Opebi Link Bridge
Sheraton-Opebi Bridge
Jibowu/Yaba flyover Bridge
Carter Bridge, Lagos
Bariga-Ifako Bridge
Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/Alapere Bridge
Bariga/Oworonsoki Bridge
Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/Gbagada U-Turn
Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/3rd Mainland Bridge
3rd Mainland/Oworonsoki Bridge
Eko Bridge
Apongbon flyover Bridge
Cowry Bridge (Officers Mess)
Mcwen Bridge (Bonny Camp)
Marina/Ikoyi Bridge
Ikoyi/Obalende Bridge

 

			
			PV: 
			0