By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos  
It was an atmosphere of grief but with undying faith in his faith in Christ as the father of Plateau state born teenage undergraduate, who was shot by Boko Haram in a video currently making the rounds on social media, Pa David Daciyal, declared that the killing of his son cannot intimidate him and his family to denounce the Lordship of Jesus Christ but can only make them stronger as Christians. 
“If you kill a Christian you only killed the flesh because we shall rejoice again on the day of resurrection: Let us assure Boko Haram that we are stronger and cannot be intimidated”. 
Father of the deceased, Pa Daciyal, stated this at his residence on Thursday in Jos, while reacting for the first time on the death of his son, Master Daciya Dalep aged 22, who was murdered in cold blood by Boko Haram. 
It would be recalled that on Tuesday morning, January 21st 2020, Nigerians woke up to a gory video of the gruesome execution of a Plateau teenager, Master Daciya Dalep. 
Dalep, a 200 level Biology/Education student of University of Maiduguri, was abducted on the 9th of January 2020 by Boko Haram insurgents on his way to school from Jos. 
Lamenting his death, his father, Mr. Dacival added that “we are in the last days, our prayer as a family is that God should touch the hearth of our leaders to provide security for our children especially along Maiduguri axis. 
“Boko Haram in the video said they are looking out for Plateau people in retaliation for the crisis that hitherto took place in Jos. 
READ ALSO Boko Haram reject N50m ransom, behead Pastor in Adamawa
“The statement has made it clear that no Plateau man is safe along the axis of northeastern Nigeria”, Dacival said. 
It was gathered that there is tension in the city giving the fact that the video of the execution of the teenager had the voice of his executor saying that the death of Daciya Dalep is ‘in retaliation for their loss in Plateau State.’ 
Security forces in the state have been put on red alert to forestall any reprisal. 
Boko Haram faction, Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), on Tuesday used an 8-year-old boy to execute a Christian hostage, Daciya Dalep in Borno State.
Rita Katz, Director of SITE Intelligence Group, an organisation which tracks the activities of jihadist groups, made the revelation on Twitter, before it went viral.
She tweeted: “There is NO end to ISIS’ immorality. A child, approximately 8, featured in a video executing Nigerian Christian prisoner under its ISWAP in Borno. Kid warns Christians: “We won’t stop until we take revenge for all the blood that was spilled.”


“The video is not just another piece to ISIS’ honed-in targeting of Christians of recent years, but also a throwback to its older propaganda from Iraq & Syria of brainwashed children carrying grisly executions. This new video from ISWAP shows a repeat of the same indoctrination.”


Dalep was a student of University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID).


			
			PV: 
			0