There are indications that the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, during the New Year courtesy visit to the State House, Abuja, attempted to beguiled President Muhammadu Buhari with a lie that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) initiated the aborted third term plot for the incumbent president. Oshiomhole was said to have adduced that the exposure of alleged third term plot of President Muhammadu Buhari was planted by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The APC national chairman in a media interaction with State House Correspondents after a meeting of APC leaders with President Buhari in Abuja, shifted the burden of the controversial third term plot to the PDP. He was of the view that most Nigerians are yet to forget what the PDP tried to do to promote the third term agenda while in power. Oshiomhole, however, failed to explain how the third term plot resurfaced in 2019 through advocacy by some APC stakeholders for tenure elongation, including court action by APC member in the southeast for alteration of the constitution for President Buhari to seek third term after the expiration of his second term in 2023. More so, the bill for six years single tenure which was a covert strategy to adopt third term, was defeated in the House of Representatives and thrown out.
Yet, Oshiomhole in his beguile, declared: “The third term was planted by PDP; it is still in the sub-consciousness of most Nigerians that the first Nigeria president tried to do the third term, emptied the treasury to bribe members of the National Assembly and since that president left, no other president has done eight years in office.”
The APC national chairman, thereafter, endorsed the controversial   New Year message of President Buhari to Nigerians. The president, however, reiterated his promise that he will not contest the 2023 presidential election.
“There was nothing wrong and we are indeed happy with the New Year message to Nigerians because the responsibility of every leader is to inspire hope, life is sustained and driven by hope.
“The challenge of leadership is not to join the people to lament that things are terrible, to give up and join the people in wallowing in self-pity. The responsibility of leadership is to inspire people, give them hope,” Oshiomhole said.

			
			PV: 
			0