By Olanrewaju Adesanya 

Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa,Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly
 has called on journalists covering the Assembly to be united so that they could achieve much in the New Year.

Obasa spoke through the Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Publicity, Strategy and Security, Hon. Tunde Braimoh at the annual Get Together/New Year Programmes of the journalists covering the House.

The event held at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry Centre, Behind MKO Garden, Alausa, Ikeja on Friday 3rd January, 2020.

The Speaker told the journalists, who operate under the auspices of the Lagos State House of Assembly Correspondents Association (LAHACA) that it was a good thing to work together as an indivisible entity.

Tunde Braimoh thanked the Organising Committee for the event, adding that it was not easy to serve and that when one does it is a thankless job.

“Togetherness in a forum like this is mandatory by God.
God loves togetherness, but we are selfish in nature and seclude ourselves.

“But we need each other. God wants us to be together. I can imagine the odds that come with this kind of events.

“It is not easy to put such an event together. May God grant you more wisdom, understanding and knowledge to be of service to Nigeria,” he said.

The lawmaker praised Speaker Mudashiru Obasa, who he described as an experienced legislator, who has brought his experience to bear on the activities of the Assembly.

He added that the Speaker asked him to overlook the excesses of the journalists and look forward to a better period with them as the correspondents of the Assembly.

In his speech at the event, the Chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Dr. Kazeem Akinreti stated that he had done a lot on media investment during his tenure.

He advised journalists to look at the profession and make the best use of it.

“It is the best profession in the world. We should enhance the credibility of the profession. We are seeking a reelection this year. We are moving to our new office this year as this is the best legacy.

“We will want the Hon. Tunde Braimoh to help us with the media enhancement bill as Lagos State is where we have more journalists.

“In some countries such as Singapore and others, there are funds, where media houses get money to pay salaries if they don’t have enough money to pay staff.

“We have the impunity of not paying our workers in Nigeria. It is not acceptable in other countries. I have five months to work and spend the remaining three months for election.

“But I will ensure that the Media Enhancement Bill sees the light of the day so that we can change the face of the media in Lagos State,” he said.

Also speaking, the Chairman of LAHACA, Mr. Akinboye Akintola thanked God for preserving the lives of members of the association since last year and for making it possible for them to witness another year.

“We thank God for year 2020, a year of progress and expansion. This year’s edition of our event is different as we have been able to introduce seminars as the facilitators would speak on different issues,” he said.

He stated that 2019 was an election year in Nigeria, the year of inauguration of the 9th Lagos Assembly and the last year for the current executive of LAHACA.

There were however talks on “A Journalist As An Entrepreneur by a former Sunday Editor of The Nation Newspaper, Mr. Lekan Otunfodunrin and Health Talk by Dr. Juliet Ottoh, a clinical psychologist with the Department of Psychiatry, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH).


Speaking during the first lecture, Mr. Lekan Otunfodunrin said that journalists must know the business aspect of their job by developing capacity and exploring profitable angles of their scope of their operation.

Otunfodunrin stated that journalists needed to become entrepreneurs due to the state of the industry, state of the economy and digital disruption.

According to him, there is need for opportunity to create good products and maximize potentials.


He said: “a journalist could start his own publication or broadcast organizations. He should create content and independent production.

“A journalist could do media support services such as providing editorial services, consultancy, public relations, training knowledge and sharing.

“He could go into non-journalism related business. He should also know his skills, knowledge, passion and network. Journalists must change their mindsets everyday,” he said.

In the second lecture, Dr. Juliet Ottoh pointed out that most occupations were stressful, and that stress is part of life.

Ottoh explained that getting a new job or getting married is stressful, and urged the audience to think of how to reduce stress in their everyday lives.

“Our attitude can lead to stress. The feeling that you have lost personal control can lead to stress. The feeling that outside force is challenging or threatening you,” she said.

The psychologist identified work overload, time pressure, physical danger and relationship at work as some of the sources of stress.

“How you feel (emotion), depressed/tired, angry, frustrated, how you behave, react are parts of stress.

“Stress could lead to accidents, mistakes, eating habit, sleeping problems, problematic social behaviour (withdrawal, aggression, withdrawal, aggression, compulsive shopping.

“It also shows in how you think, poor concentration and memory.

“It can cause physical disorder, stress can increase hormone which affects your metabolism, immune reaction and other stress responses such as heartbeat, respiration, blood pressure and physical demands on your internal organ,” she said.

On managing stress, she urged the participants to know themselves better, especially on how they react to different situations, and what causes them stress.

She however told them to set priorities, examine their expectations, live a healthy lifestyle, and learn to accept change as a part of life, adding that they must manage their resources, avoid living above their means, eat healthy, and put challenges behind them.

Ottoh added that there is a relationship between depression and stress.

She revealed that people with depression have similar symptoms with stress, and that this could affect their eating habit, relationships, function at work, and that it is a mental illness.

Symptoms of depression, according to her, include insomnia, loss of appetite, suicide, memory loss, decreased energy amongst others.

On how to deal with stress, she said that people could go on vacation, take time out to rest, avoid scheduling too many appointment or meetings, become an expert at managing your time, learn to say “no” set limits or and minimize stress.

“All Nigerians are depressed, so don’t think you are the only one. You must refrain from problems. We must learn to make excuses for people. Adjust your standard.

“We all make mistakes, we must not overflog ourselves. Practise gratitude. Learn to appreciate people. Make time for fun and relaxation.

“Don’t get caught up on hustle and bustle of life such that you forget to take care of yourself.

“Create time for leisure and make jokes. Do something you enjoy doing everyday. Keep your sense of humour, and take up a relaxation practice,” she said.

The event also featured dinner/gala night, which took place in the evening till the wee hours of the day.

The Chief of Staff to the Speaker,Hon.Dayo Saka Fafunmi,who took time out to witness the gathering also gave credence to the importance of journalist to societal development,stressing the Speaker recognizes the contributions of LAHACA members in the Assembly.

According to Fafunmi better days lies ahead for journalist and the state in general,if journalists project the legislature and by extension the state objectively.


			
			PV: 
			0