Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister, has fired Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari, over his comments that Nigerians should be thankful to Buhari that bomb explosion has reduced in the country.
Fani-Kayode was of the view that Femi Adesina has “spoken like a true sociopath: no empathy for the suffering, no compassion, no decency and no class.”
He declared: “the truth is that you are a desperate and insensitive clown who is simply trying to hang on to his job at all costs!
“Do you have to mock Nigerians like this and serve Buhari even at the expense of your self-respect, honor, dignity, reputation, family name and the cost of their lives.”
Fani-Kayode reminded Femi Adesina: “a few months ago, you said that we should give up our land to the barbaric and bloodthirsty terrorist Fulani herdsmen or instead give up our lives and now you say this.”
He, then, declared: “You are a sick man Femi. Depraved and degraded in every sense and way and you are clearly suffering from what is known in biblical terms as a “Demastic” anointing.
“You remember Demas in the Bible? That is who and what you are: you have sold your soul to the devil, turned your back on the path of light, abandoned the gospel, insulted and betrayed your elders and betters in the faith, sold your heritage for a pottage like Esau, fallen in love with the things of the world and opted to tread the path of darkness and evil.
“You were once a profoundly good man but your love and slavish devotion to your boss and the demons that have seized your mind, body, spirit and soul have utterly destroyed you.
“You have made your choice and you will surely live with the consequences of that decision for the rest of your life but, meanwhile, hear the following and hear it well.
“Whether Boko Haram and the Fulani herdsmen blow us up with bombs, behead us, cut us to pieces with their matchets, knives and cutlasses or shoot us in the back of the head with their AK 47’s, it makes no difference because, as the Ghanaians say, “all die be die”.
“Your Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen have collectively slaughtered more Nigerians in the last four years than at any other time in our history. They are slaughtering us like flies every day and the best you can do is to mock us and say this?
“You deserve the worse form of divine judgement for your beastly and callous mockery of the Nigerian people. You are a dark, depraved, pernicious, specious and wicked soul who deserves no peace and the blood of all those that have been murdered by these deviant miscreants and demons from hell shall speak against you!
“The God of Heaven, the Ancient of Days, the Lord of Hosts and the Lion of the Tribe of Judah will surely judge both you and the Government that you serve for your obvious collusion with the forces of darkness that have plagued our people and butchered them callously and relentlessly for the last 4 years!”

			
			PV: 
			0