The Supreme Court created Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, has been living in palpable fear since he became principal beneficiary of the highly unpopular judgment of the apex court last Tuesday. The ‘artificial’ governor was earlier reported to have threatened to probe his predecessors from Ikedi Ohakim to Rochas Okorocha and the last governor, Emeka Ihedioha. He, however, denied the report with speed.
Uzodinma in the apprehension of the mass action across the country by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in protest of the Supreme Court judgment, raised a false alarm that the PDP is secretly inciting members of the Imo State House of Assembly to impeach him. While living in fear of guilt, the embattled governor remains shaky over his tenure which many believe was built on fraudulent foundation from the court judgment.
The Supreme Court had in tis judgment, created more votes than there were voters in the controversial 388 polling units in Imo State where the governorship election was said to be rigged by the All Progressives Congress (APC) for its candidate in the March 2019 governorship election, Uzodinma.  The result was rejected by the INEC, while the presentation of the result at the Tribunal by Uzodinma was rejected by the judges who said it was forged. The Court of Appeal upheld the Tribunal judgment but the Supreme Court accepted the figures to declare Uzodinma winner of the governorship election. Unfortunately, adding the Supreme Court has been under fire for accepting figures which overshoot the INEC record and result of the Imo election. The different figure of overvoting is still waiting for explanation. Nigerians believe the judgment of the Supreme Court was a huge electoral fraud.
The troubled governor has been having sleepless nights since his inauguration.
Uzodinma may be hunted by what Nigerians consider as fraudulent judgment of the Supreme Court which declared him winner of the election while APC won no seat in the Imo State House of Assembly not even from the 388 polling units that the court declared Uzodinma won all the votes.
Meanwhile, of the 27 members of the Imo State House of Assembly, PDP has 13 members, Action Alliance 8 and APGA 6. The Action Alliance is an arm of then APC.
Uzodinma’s propaganda sounds ridiculous to the extent that APGA governorship candidate, Ifeanyi Ararume, has declared to work with him, while the AA candidate has already declared his return to APC. It will take 18 of the 27 lawmakers to impeach Uzodinma and PDP has 13 members.






			
			PV: 
			0