With less than 48 hours to draw the curtain on the January transfer window, tension has arisen in England as the Spanish giant Barcelona are planning an audacious raid on the English Premier League teams for some top Brazilian stars before deadline.
Though Everton have turned down an initial offer of €100m (£85m) from Barcelona for Brazilian striker Richarlison, this has not seize to cast some level of fears on Everton fans because they are aware of power that the Spanish giants command.
Richarlison has emerged as Barcelona top target despite disinterest from Everton
Everton rejected the offer immediately, unwilling to sell one of their prized assets as they look to strengthen their squad – rather than deplete it National Daily learnt.
National Daily has further gathered that Richarlison emerged as a long-standing target of Barca’s sporting director Eric Abidal, who enquired about the 22-year-old’s availability last summer but saw those advances knocked back. And this has remained a cause of worry for the Everton fans.
In a similar vein, Barcelona are preparing a last-minute £20m bid for Chelsea winger Willian who has appeared as one of the brightest stars so far under Frank Lampard.
National Daily gathered that the La Liga side have been long-term admirers of the Brazilian, who will be out of contract in the summer. This development will definitely bother fans at the Stamford Bridge.
Chelsea fans will fear to see Willian depart Stamford Bridge following his bright form so far
With competition growing to sign Willian on a free contract in July, Barca are looking to steal a march on a number of top European teams and land him for a fee, believed to be £20m, before Friday’s deadline.
Barcelona launched a series of bids for Willian in the summer of 2018, the last of which topped £55m, which were all rejected by Chelsea National Daily further learnt.
The major jitter for every Chelsea fan is that talks over a new contract are yet to suggest a deal is possible and the fear is that there is an expectation that the 31-year old will leave the Blues in the summer unless a deal can be brokered before Saturday’s 10am (AEDT) deadline.
 




			
			PV: 
			0