Boko Haram faction, Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), allegedly used 8-year-old boy to execute Christian hostage, Daciya Dalep in Borno State.







Rita Katz, Director of SITE Intelligence Group, an organisation which tracks the activities of jihadist groups, made the revelation on Twitter.
She tweeted: “There is NO end to ISIS’ immorality. A child, approximately 8, featured in a video executing Nigerian Christian prisoner under its ISWAP in Borno. Kid warns Christians: “We won’t stop until we take revenge for all the blood that was spilled.”


“The video is not just another piece to ISIS’ honed-in targeting of Christians of recent years, but also a throwback to its older propaganda from Iraq & Syria of brainwashed children carrying grisly executions. This new video from ISWAP shows a repeat of the same indoctrination.”


Dalep was a student of University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID).


The native of Jing in Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau, was abducted two weeks ago by insurgents on his way to Maiduguri to resume school.


 
He was murdered a few days before the execution of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman in Michika Local Government Area of Adamawa State, Rev. Lawan Andimi.
Andimi was abducted by Boko Haram when they attacked Michika early January 2.


Yusuf Gagdi, member representing Pankshin, Kanke and Kanam Federal Constituency, has condemned the killing of Dalep, his constituent.

“I am devastated by the excruciating lost of this promising young man, and more pathetically, in a gruesome manner one could not wish for his arch enemy.

“This has, once again, brought to fore the nightmarish experience of people living in the insurgency ravaged Northeastern part of Nigeria,” he said.

The lawmaker urged governments at all levels to redouble efforts at ending insurgency in the North-East and other security threats in other parts of the country.


Gagdi appealed to Nigerians to render all the needed support to the security agencies in their quest to end insurgency in the country.

			
			PV: 
			0