Soyinka berates AGF

Following declaration by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami that the recently constituted Western Nigerian Security Network, also known as Amotekun is illegal, governors in the region have insisted on going ahead with their plans.
While the National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of Lagos state, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has kept quiet over the matter, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, insisted that the governors of Southwestern states are on sound legal grounds in putting together the security outfit.
Akeredolu, who is also the Chairman of the Southwest Governors Forum, also vowed that he and his colleagues will pursue the initiative to a logical conclusion.
While speaking on Channels Television programme, Politics Today, Akeredolu, said the governors of the zone will first seek a political solution before approaching the courts.
He also insisted that the outfit is not a paramilitary organisation: “The security of our people is very paramount to us. That is why you voted us in. Operation Amotekun is to complement the efforts of the armed forces and the police.
“So we are on very sound legal grounds, and we will pursue this to a logical conclusion. Operation Amotekun is one of the solutions we can proffer to the security challenges in the South-Western Nigeria.
“The activities of the personnel working for the outfit have not come out and someone sat in his office and said they are paramilitary. How did he come to that conclusion?”
“We do not have to consult with the AGF to set up Amotekun. The President and the IG were already informed. The AGF should have been more circumspect before making the statement he made yesterday.”
Shedding light on some of the reasons for the setting up of the security outfit, Akeredolu said: “The police will tell you that they are not to go into the forests. Our youths and hunters are to operate in the forests. When they kidnap people, the kidnappers will go into the forests.”
Meanwhile, Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, on Wednesday asked the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who he said just woke up, to go back to sleep.
Soyinka said this at a press conference, where berated Malami for declaring the security outfit as illegal.
He said branding the security initiative as illegal when the people wanted to tackle what the existing security unit had been unable to check is an enemy action, unpatriotic and inhuman.
“I prefer to believe that the government itself has not spoken. I refuse to believe that any serious government which cares for its citizenry will raise an objection to this kind of initiative. Whether they raise it or not, Amotekun has come to stay. Amotekun is a creation of people about humanity not about legalism,” he said.





			
			PV: 
			0