Manchester United have completed the transfer of Bruno Fernandes to Old Trafford after weeks of negotiations to the delight of the Red Devils supporters.

However, report reaching National Daily reveals that United are considering another mega transfer before deadline few hours away.

The Old Trafford club are keen on a January deadline day transfer for Bournemouth striker Josh King.
Josh King could make a sensational return to United before transfer deadline
National Daily understands from a report by MEN Sports that there is an interest from United in re-signing their former forward and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s fellow countryman, who departed Old Trafford in 2013.

Meanwhile, Bournemouth gaffer, Eddie Howe has confirmed United‘s bid while going ahead to admit that he has a decision to make in that respect.
Eddie Howe has confirmed United’s bid for his attacker
United manager Solskjaer has however played down the likelihood of a signing today in his latest press conference, but the Red Devils fans have remained upbeat with the hope of regaining their former forward. Though his injury record has remain a source of concern to most of them.

King has scored three goals against United for Bournemouth including the winning goal when the sides met at the Vitality Stadium in November, although injury has restricted the 28-year-old’s playing time this term.

The last of King’s three goals against United for Bournemouth was the winning goal for the Cherries back in November, spinning to volley beyond David de Gea to secure a 1-0 win at the Vitality Stadium.

Remarkably, King was quick to reminisce about his fond memories of working with Solskjaer in United reserve team when he spoke to the reporters after his last goal against his former club National Daily further learnt.
Solskjaer could be hoping for reunion with his compatriot
“I know Ole quite well, he gave me a chance in the reserves,” he said. “I always speak with him when I see him, he was my manager for two years and there’s a few United lads I still speak to.

“Ole was great for me, I had a great spell in the reserves and I think Ole would confirm that.”
 
King like Paul Pogba could be wishing for his United second coming to prove a point going by his comment in November that he felt he never got a proper chance at Old Trafford, making just two substitutes despite shining at youth level.

“Of course, it’s hard to leave,” he said on his decision to seek more first team football.
“It was the biggest club in the world when I left it, with history, with Sir Alex Ferguson.
“And obviously when you’re 16, you know it’s going to be tough but you believe you’re going to make it through and get a chance. Sir Alex used to give chances to some of the young boys – [Federico] Macheda, [Danny] Welbeck – which gave them confidence.
“But I never felt I got that chance, so I felt I had to think about myself.
“Maybe I could’ve been patient and stayed there in the ressies [reserves] for my chance but I felt I had to move on and play man football.”
 




			
			PV: 
			0