Coalition of northern youths under the umbrella of Arewa Youths Assembly, says it is grossly unfair and malicious for north to retain power beyond 2023, noting that it would do all that is politically required to ensure the emergence of a South-South candidate for the 2023 presidency.
Arewa Youths position on 2023 presidency was coming on the heels of northern elders’ forum led by Professor Ago Abdullahi that north can retain power for 100 years.
Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, the leader of the coalition, Mohammed Salihu Danlami said the North have occupied the leadership position of the country since independence, more than any other region.
“The expectation of 2023 leadership is high, but we are constrained to speak up on the unnecessary distraction and our solidarity toward our fellow brother from South-South towards enthroning a new leadership in 2023.
“Nigeria must get it right by producing a youthful president from South-South who represents tolerance, inclusiveness, love and compassion for all Nigeria – a president who combines courage, patriotism, tact, diplomacy and intellect for navigating the murky water of politics in Nigeria.
“Our great nation has not fulfilled its potential and our realities are far from our ideals, it is time for a new generation to build a modern Nigeria. Nigeria Youths should take a cue from emerging global change in political leadership, youths must take charge to build the Nigeria of our dream. “Though tribe and tongue may differ, in brotherhood we stand”.
“The position we are taking today may be harder, but it will leads the country to a better place. We say No to the selected few subscribing Nigeria leadership to ethnic arithmetic, Nigerian Youths must search carefully for the next leader to lead the country amongst them.
“Youth can truly ensure better leadership in Nigeria because they are very energetic, youths are the engine room and forces behind most social, economic or political developments of every successful nation, it is time for fresh initiatives to take it root”.

			
			PV: 
			0