The International Federation of Female Lawyers (FIDA) has commenced rehabilitation of some girls and married women who engaged in a pornographic video for N30, 000.
Chairperson of the association, Mrs Mary Izam, said that the rehabilitation became necessary as all the girls were depressed and another, a married woman, had committed suicide.
Izam, who appealed to women and girls to engage in honest jobs through which they can make honest living, told them that running away and suicide was not an option.
Some weeks ago, videos showing young girls and wives engaging in sexual acts rocked Jos, the Plateau capital.
The videos, which were leaked on the internet, had been in circulation across the state before it was pulled down.
Outrage trailed the videos as some of the girls were recognised by family and friends, while others were identified as married women.
The videos were recorded by a man who initially interviewed them, before taking off their clothes and having carnal knowledge of them on camera.
The girls, with their consent were filmed while engaging in the act and later paid N30, 000 each with a promise to be paid additional N100,000 later.
The man, who is said to reside at the Rayfield area of Jos took the women to a hotel in the same area to shoot the videos.
The man, it was gathered, has female agents, whom he paid N10,000 for anyone they introduced to him.
It was further learnt that the act has been going on for over three years and over 50 girls and women have so far featured in the videos.
Two of the girls who came forward for rehabilitation at the FIDA state office said poverty and lack led them to commit the act.
One of the girls who was weeping uncontrollably said; “This happened 2 years ago, my nephew was at the point of death and I needed to help my sister with money for his treatment.
“I met a lady at a beer parlour who told me about the man and I quickly agreed to do it, the painful part is that after I took the money home, my nephew still died.
“He promised us that he would release the videos outside Jos but I later realised he only played us as we are not literate enough to know that once it’s on the internet, everybody can see it,” she said.

			
			PV: 
			0