No more votes allocation in Akwa Ibom

The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, on Tuesday, revealed that former INEC REC colluded with politicians to allocate five per cent votes to President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2015 elections, warning that the days of votes allocation are over in the state. Igini, on Channels Television programme – Sunrise Daily – on Tuesday, monitored from Lagos, decried that previous RECs in Akwa Ibom do not conduct elections in all parts of the state but rather allocate votes.
The Akwa Ibom State REC said that INEC allocated five per cent in 2015 to President Muhammadu Buhari in Akwa Ibom State. He insisted that in Akwa Ibom State, they don’t do elections, they just write results.
Igini maintained that he has evidence to support his claims, especially on the 2015 and 2019 general elections.
He declared: “In that same 2015 in Akwa Ibom, they ‘allocated’ five per cent (of votes) to the current President;” reiterating: “… in Akwa Ibom, they don’t do election, they write results.”
Igini had insisted: “I have the records, you go there; because when I arrived in Akwa Ibom State, leaders – traditional rulers, religious leaders; all groups came to me but that is not new to me, I was the commissioner in neighbouring Cross River State.”
Igini admonished that the days of not conducting elections were gone, adding that the electoral system in Akwa Ibom State would witness a major turnaround.
The REC disclosed that he notified political stakeholders in the state after he assumed office that it would no longer be business as usual. Igini stated that the political affiliates accusing him of bias were only struggling to secure undue advantages. He remarked that the political actors and the leaders in Akwa State ignored his warning, thought they could buy over his conscience and when they failed, they treated him like the Noah in the Bible.
“Noah told the children of God that there will be a great flood, but they didn’t take that seriously.
“I told them that under my watch in Akwa Ibom State, it is the will of the people that will govern,” Igini said.


			
			PV: 
			0