Bike-hailing operators have described the ban of tricycles, motorcycles from operating in 15 local government as insensitive.
Reacting to the ban, Gokada and Max,ng made known that they were not consulted before the decision was taken. They said their fear was that millions of dollars’ worth of investment would be lost and people’s sources of income would be blocked.
While speaking during a press conference, the Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of MAX, Adetayo Bamiduro said the company had been fully complying with the laws guiding the operations of commercial motorcycles in the state. He said that despite making two million trips, the company’s riders had not recorded any fatalities.
Bamiduro explained that the company was established in accordance with the requirements of the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, which restricts motorcycles from operating on major highways in the state but however makes an exception for motorcycles with engine capacity above 200cc. He said the company’s motorcycle engines were all 220cc, a 10% premium above the regulatory requirement.
“We are also fully compliant with the requirement of the law prohibiting the operation of motorcycles without rider and passenger helmets, carrying more than one passenger, comprehensive insurance, in addition to other safety-related violations.
ALSO READ: Rumpus as Lagos Task Force raids commercial motorcycles, trikes ahead of Feb 1 ban
“This blanket directive extending the ban to commercial ride-hailing operators is therefore not in accordance with the extant law which guides us as a legal business.
“To keep them safe physically and mentally, our drivers are provided with smartphones, accident insurance, two helmets, branded clothing and first aid equipment. Both drivers and passengers have accident insurance and the drivers, in addition, have functional HMOs,” Bamiduro said in a Punch report.
Also speaking on the ban, the Pilot Operations Manager at Gokada, Victor Daminabo noted that the company was also fully compliant with the provisions of the law prohibiting the operations of motorcycles without rider and passenger helmets, amongst others.
“We are also fully compliant with the requirements of the law prohibiting the operations of motorcycles without rider and passenger helmets, carrying more than one passenger, comprehensive insurance etc.
“In addition to being fully compliant with the relevant laws, we have also in the course of our constant engagements with the government, demonstrated that we have the infrastructure and investments to address all safety and security concerns regarding the operations of motorcycles in the state,” he said.











			
			PV: 
			0