Youths in their hundreds trooped out on Tuesday in Bayelsa State to protest the shooting of an National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member serving in the state and two others by the police in the Ekeki area of Yenagoa.
Report indicated that the incident happened on Monday evening after a policeman deployed to a bank in the area shot at the victims at close range, leading to their death immediately.
The policeman had taken to his heels but was on Tuesday caught and arrested.
An eyewitness was said that have disclosed that one of the victims was the driver of a 14-seater bus, who was conveying some passengers returning from the Christmas holidays. The passengers were to be disembarking close to the front of the bank.
It was said that minor disagreement ensued between the driver and the policeman after he had ordered him not to drop the passengers there.
Thereafter, the policeman opened fire on the occupants killing the driver and two passengers, including a serving corps member.
The youths, accordingly, went on rampage, destroying the bank’s Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
Three police vans and a detachment of mobile policemen have been drafted to the scene of the incident located close to the Central Motor Park, in Ekeki, to restore law and order.
The Bayelsa State Police Command had disclosed that the officer, accused of extra-judicial killing, has been arrested.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Command, SP Asinim Butswat,  in a statement indicated that the Commissioner of Police, CP Uche Anozia, has ordered that the police officer be remanded in custody.
The statement reads: “The authorities of Bayelsa Police Command have arrested and taken into custody one Police Mobile Force (PMF) personnel for suspicion of Discreditable Conduct and Unlawful Use of his Firearm.
“The suspect, a male NCO, who was arrested on the orders of the State Commissioner of Police, CP Uche Anozia is currently in detention at the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department, Yenagoa.”

			
			PV: 
			0