Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The security situation in northern Nigeria has continued to get worse as bandits overrun the northwest and north central on a daily basis. After the Friday and Saturday invasion of rural communities, bandits on Sunday struck in Maitumbi and Kuchi communities in Bosso and Munya Local Government Areas (LGAs), Niger State, kidnapping over 20 people, while several others were injured in the operation.
It was gathered that Chairman of Bosso Local Government Area, Abubakar Gomna, acknowledged the violent attack of bandits in Maitumbi, which he said was sustained for about two hours.
The bandits, said to be over 30, had invaded the community at about 11.30pm on Sunday, shooting sporadically and targeting residents of the community in the shooting.
In Kuchi community, Munya Local Government Area, over 17 indigenes were said to be kidnapped, while about five persons were identified to be injured. Parents of a former chairman of the local government, Mallam Yahuza, were said to be among those kidnapped by the armed bandits.
Chairman of Bosso Local Government Area, Abubakar Gomna, was cited to have narrated: “the gunmen came in their numbers and started shooting sporadically. Some members of the vigilante group tried to stop them, but they overpowered the vigilantes.
“Some of the vigilantes were shot but are currently receiving treatment.”
The LG chairman disclosed that the bandits have communicated their demand for a ransom of N5 million for the release of each of the victims in their captivity.
Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Noel-Berje, expressed concerns over the frequent attacks on innocent citizens by bandits in the state.
Governor Bello, condemning the incessant and nefarious activities of bandits in Niger State, encouraged  residents of the invaded rural communities to be calm and support  government’s interventionist efforts towards identifying and dislodging the criminals to secure the state.
The governor revealed that Governors of the North Central States at a recent meeting in Makurdi, Benue State, resolved on some ideas and new approach in tackling banditry in the zone.
Governor Bello appealed to the residents of the troubled communities and LGs, to collaborate with the government and security operatives, providing intelligence on the bandits.
The State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) was directed by the governor to provide medical assistance and relief to the injured, and the IDPs taking refuge at the Maitumbi Primary School in Bosso Local Government Area.
Share this on WhatsApp