Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has once again berated President Muhammadu Buhari over the spate of killings and insecurity being witnessed across the country.
NEF expressed its dismay on Thursday through spokesman of the group, Hakeem Baba Ahmed who said President Buhari has no empathy and has failed to recognise that Nigerians are scared and dying.
The northern elders’ spokesman who stated this while speaking with Channels TV when asked about the increasing rate of insecurity in Nigeria, said that Buhari does not feel remorse and also does not recognise the fact that Nigeria has serious problems to deal with in the area of security.
Reacting further, the Northern Elders Forum spokesman, Ahmed said that Buhari keeps telling Nigerians to pray but has failed to do anything serious about the killings in the country especially in the North.
The NEF spokesman said; “I feel sorry for the president, if he does not do anything and we just hear excuses then we are in serious trouble.
“The Presidency does not feel empathy. We don’t see a presidency who recognises the fact that we have serious problems but all we hear is we should pray. We are praying that God shows Buhari the way to fix the country. As northerners we are dying and Southerners are being killed.
“Buhari needs to do something serious, we measure him by just one thing and that is ‘What is the outcome of your commitment’ the country has become so dangerous to live in.
Meanwhile, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of breaking the law by still retaining his service chiefs.
Shekarau, a former Education Minister, stated this when he appeared as a guest on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily on Thursday.
The killing of no less than 43 farmers by Boko Haram last Saturday, has seen many Nigerians renewing the calls for Buhari to sack the service chiefs.
Commenting on that Shekarau said, “The President is breaking the law, the law says if you are 60 you must go, it is automatic. If you are 35-years in service, you must go. In fact, they are not staff of Mr. President, they are the staff of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and there is a rule.”
Share this on WhatsApp