Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Honourable Minister of Industry,Trade and Investment Otunba Niyi Adebayo in consonance with the National council,the highest decision making body of the ministry,has recommended and approved Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board to take charge of promotion of Trade in Nigeria.
The council clearly impressed by the ingenuity displayed by LITFCMB headed by Chief Mrs Lucy Omosefe Ajayi, in her various efforts geared towards restoring life back to the complex through good management of human resources and national asset placed in her care, made the recommendations and consequent approval.
The decision of the council was made at the 12th meeting of the National  Council on Industry,Trade and Investment NCITI held at NAF conference Centre Abuja.Theme: Revitalization of Industry,Trade and Investment Sector in the Post COVID-19 Era.
A vote of confidence was then passed by the council on the Chief Executive Officer of LITFCMB, Chief Lucy Ajayi for having displayed a high level of resourcefulness as touching creation of conducive environment for ease of commerce in and around the complex.
For engaging constructively the stakeholders and other users of the complex to ensure a better deal.
Her concerted efforts geared towards bringing back Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI),organizers of the popular Lagos International Trade Fair and Exhibition to the Complex after a long period of absence.
Rehabilitation of internal road networks within the Complex, to enhance vehicular and human movement with an attendant attraction of investment and ease of doing business there.
Continuous collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing in monitoring supervision and evaluation of structural developments in the complex, as well as her efforts in the conceptualization and organizing of Christmas /New Year Expo, with a view to generate revenue to government coffers.
The parley earlier scheduled to hold in Ekiti State was held at Abuja to afford space for social distancing as the COVID-19 guidelines demanded for such gathering.
The Minister of State for Industry,Trade and Investment  Ambassador Mariam Yalwaji Katagum,Permanent Secretary Dr. Nasir Sani-Gwarzo, Various state Commissioners of Industry,Trade and Investment were in attendance.
Share this on WhatsApp