Share this on WhatsApp
 


President Mohammadu Buhari has ordered the closure of all bars, night clubs, pubs and event centres, and recreational venues for the next five weeks as claims of a new strain  of COVID–19 is said to be sweeping across the world in the ‘second wave’ of the pandemic.
Restaurants and schools would also remain closed till at till January 18, 2021.
Events bigger than 50 people at once must take place outdoor as places of worship are expected to take in 50 percent of their capacity at once.
All government staff on grade level 12 and below are to stay at home for the next five weeks.
Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 Boss Mustapha stated these during the PTF press conference on Monday.
“Recall that the PTF established the Nigeria International Travel Portal for the control of possible importation of the virus. Statistics show that a good percentage of in-bound travellers have breached the travel protocols, thereby making surveillance and testing suffer undue setbacks.
“The PTF has concluded arrangements with the Nigeria Immigration Service to impose sanctions on these defaulters for breaching the public health protocols, within ambit of the law.
“The PTF has surveyed developments and actions taken by governments around the world, assessed our domestic environment and has accordingly submitted its recommendations to Mr President on immediate measures to be taken.
“Accordingly, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has authorised the PTF to engage with the states and the FCT to assume full ownership of this stage of the response by deploying legal structures and resources, including enforcement to manage the pandemic within their jurisdictions.
“In line with the authorisation, the PTF wishes to issue the following advisories to sub-national entities for implementation over the next five weeks because these activities are considered super spreader events:
“Close all bars, night clubs, pubs and event centres, and recreational venues; close all restaurants except those providing services to hotel residents; takeaways, home deliveries and drive-ins shall remain closed.
“Restrict all informal and formal festivity events including weddings, conferences, congresses, office parties, concerts, seminars, sporting activities, end of year events shall be restricted to not more than 50 persons.
“Limit all gatherings linked to religious events to less than 50 per cent capacity of the facility of use during which physical distancing; mandatory use of face masks shall be strictly enforced.
“Where more than 50 persons are attending, any such events, the gathering should be held outdoors only; public transportation systems are to carry passengers not more than 50 percent of their capacity in compliance with social distancing rules.
Sharing his own experience coming out of isolation, Mustapha said nine members of his household, including a one-year-old, had so far tested positive for the virus.
Mustapha also said he had lost more friends during the second wave of the virus than he did between March and November, a claim many believe he didn’t substantiate.
Share this on WhatsApp