Share this on WhatsApp
 


President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the imposition of new restrictions to control the second wave surge of coronavirus in the country. Many stakeholders of goodwill in the Nigerian project express the fear that the new restrictions may be prelude to another lockdown in Nigeria. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, at the media briefing in Abuja on Monday, announced that the Federal Government has imposed new restrictions to control the rising cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in various parts of the country. The SGF said that the directives were advisories issued to state governments for implementation in the next five weeks.
Boss Mustapha highlighted that the new restrictions include the closure of all bars, nightclubs, pubs and event centres, as well as recreational venues in all states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
The FG directed all restaurants to close business, except those providing services to hotel residents, takeaways, home deliveries, and drive-ins.
The government further ordered that all informal and formal festivity events, including weddings, conferences, congresses, office parties, concerts, seminars, sporting activities, end of year events, have been restricted to not more than 50 people. The FG further restricted all gatherings linked to religious events to less than 50 per cent of the capacity of the facility, reiterating that physical distancing and use of face masks should be strictly enforced.
Boss Mustapha, however, indicated that events where more than 50 people are attending should be held outdoors only. The SGF stated that public transportation systems should carry passengers not more than 50 per cent of their capacity, in compliance with social distancing rules.
Boss Mustapha noted that over the past four briefings, the PTF has been raising the alert flag on the rising number of infections in the country and the possibility of a second wave arriving at our shores.
He stated that recent Epidemiology records confirm to the PTF that Nigeria is now facing a rise in confirmed COVID-19 cases nationwide which is similar to the second wave of infections occurring in other countries across the world.
“Particularly, Lagos, Kaduna and the FCT have emerged as the new epicentres during this period, with over 70% of all confirmed cases.
“Notwithstanding the fact that our testing numbers are fast approaching the peak recorded in July 2020, the number of cases being reported are disproportionately higher.
“For example, in the FCT, despite recording an increase of 85% in tests conducted over the last week, the number of confirmed cases increased by 285% during the same time period; and
“These trends point to a higher Test Positivity Rate (TPR) – the number of positive cases detected as a proportion of all tests).
“The TPR was below 5% through September and October and we recorded a low point of 3% nationally in late October 2020. However, recent trends in cases have seen this number increase to 10% in the second week of December.
“These high numbers are further reflected in the increase of admissions to COVID-19 treatment centres and fatalities, particularly in the three epicentre states,” Mustapha highlighted.
However, some stakeholders were of the view that the PTF is working on stereotype policy and taking imitation actions in handling the coronavirus case in Nigeria. They argue that the PTF is merely copying the resurgence figures in Europe and America and imposing restrictions on Nigerians.
Nigerians are, however, warning the federal government that a second lockdown will be disastrous in the country. They advised the president not to contemplate such action.

Share this on WhatsApp