Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The state of the nation statement of Bishop Mattheu Kukah, Archbishop of the Catholic Diocese, Sokoto, was anchored on observable facts in the structures and policies of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government and the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. There was no need for any controversy except that beneficiaries of the status quo would naturally feel insecure with any demand on the system for change.
It is the obvious that the service chiefs of the Nigerian Armed Forces are dominated by the north. The other security agencies and paramilitary which include the State Security Service (SSS), the Nigerian Police, the Nigerian Customs, Nigerian Immigration Service, etc, are dominated by the north.
About three years ago, a generation of Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) and Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs) from the south were compulsorily retired from the Nigerian Police Force.
Curiously, in a recent promotion in the Nigerian Police Force of 37 new Police Commissioners by the Police Service Commission, the north west has 12 slots, north east 8 slots, and north central 4 slots. In all, the north has 24 new CPs of the 37 newly promoted CPs. The south west has 7 slots, south-south 5 slots and the south east 1. The south has 13 of the 37 newly promoted CPs.
While the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway has been dragging since the six years of the Buhari administration, a highway linking Kano and the neighbouring states into Niger Republic was given speedy approval by the Buhari administration in addition to cross-border railway lines on the same corridor. The transportation system, according to the government’s explanation,  was to facilitate transactions in oil shipment to and fro a newly built refinery in Niger Republic where Nigerian will be importing refined petroleum products. Meanwhile, the four refineries in the south have been deliberately shut down for reasons adduced by the NNPC, again, headed by a northerner.
Meanwhile, the controversies over the Christmas broadcast of Bishop Kukah in Sokoto are unnecessary. Criticisms are not condemnation of government, essentially, when there are facts that validates such criticisms. Criticisms provide feedback for internal review and djustment of the governance system.
 
Share this on WhatsApp