Share this on WhatsApp








The Alumni Association of Oshodi Comprehensive High School (OCHS), is set to embark on the construction of a N250 million e-library and multipurpose hall projects for the school development.

Mr Ganiyu Hamsat, the Alumni President made the disclosure  on Sunday at the School’s 39th Anniversary organised by the association held within the school premises.

“Our plan is to have a ‘three in one’ project for our school, that’s why we are building the e-library, multipurpose hall and alumni Secretariat to advance learning processes in the school.

‘The library will contain 100 of both Junior and Senior students at a time, that’s, 50-50 at both side.

“We discovered that students hardly lay hands on books nowadays to read, that is why we are embarking on the projects to help the student’s learning processes.

“And we are sure that it will help the students to learn and further improve the standard of education of the students as both JAMB and Post JAMB examinations are done electronically.

“The e-library will be like a resource centre where the junior and senior class students can make research and access best materials academically and globally,” he said.

According to him, the association has liase with the Lagos State Ministry of Education on how to ensure the three in one projects becomes a reality.

The association president said that all necessary papers have been acquired to start the project.

“The modeling is ready, both architectural and structural design are intact the next thing for us now is to raise fund for the project,” he added.

Alhaji Kolawole Ajani, the Chairman of the 39th School Anniversary in his remarks also said that the three in one project would go a long way to assist both teaching and learning processes.

“This is a huge project and we are ready for it to make our Alma mater a great citadel of learning.

“But my advice to the students is to make proper use of it for their learning process.

Ms Olabisi Sonusi, a member of Alumni also said in her remarks that such a laudable project would improve the education standard of the students.

According to her, both the e-library and multipurpose hall will help the school both academically and administratively.

The Oshodi Comprehensive High School was founded on September 7th 1981 with 230 students and Mrs Safurat Ajao, A as the first Principal while the first set graduated in 1986.









Share this on WhatsApp