Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Lagos State Government has taken the war against the spread of coronavirus in the state to recreational centres. The state government, accordingly, enforced the sealing of over 12 social facilities and recreational centres across the state for perceived defiance of the Federal Government’s directive or protocol on COVID-19.
The Director-General of Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, in a statement on Sunday indicated that some of the facilities shut down by the state government include DNA Night Club, Buzz Bar, Silverfox, Cocoon, Westend Night club, Rumors, Lekki Waterside, Landmark Event Centre, the Wave Beach club, etc.
Mojola stated that the commission has been carrying out routine mandate of the state government on enforcement and monitoring of social activities in Lagos State during the holiday season to ascertain the level of compliance and the imperative of ensuring total compliance with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 protocol.
The DG threatened that recalcitrant establishments which defy the seal of the facilities and continued partying will be charged to court once documentation has been properly processed.
Mojola affirmed that the Lagos State government is committed to curbing the spread of coronavirus in the state and would leave no stone unturned to achieve this objective.
The DG highlighted: “During the earlier monitoring and enforcement drive carried out over the weekend, starting from the 19th of December 2020, other facilities such as Cubana, Ikeja GRA; The Corner Lekki, 355 Restaurant and Night Club, Victoria Island, amongst others were sealed.” He was of the view that mass gatherings at restaurants, bars, cafes, and public places without observing necessary safety guidelines will increase the spread of the virus.
The DG appealed to the public to maintain and observe all the necessary safety precautions while celebrating Christmas and remembering the reason for the season which bothers on sacrifice.
Mojola reiterated that people must take responsibility for their safety and avoid the spread of coronavirus, telling all citizens to co-operate with the government to effectively curtail the spread of coronavirus in the society.
Share this on WhatsApp