Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Telecom operators have unveiled short codes to enable their customers’ link their National Identity Numbers (NINs) with Subscriber Identity Modules (SIM).
This follows the two-week ultimatum handed to subscribers and operators by the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy.
For Globacom, customers can dial *346# to retrieve their NIN if they have already registered with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC).
“All our esteemed customers can now link their National Identification Number (NIN) to their mobile numbers by simply sending ‘UPDATENIN NIN FirstName and LastName’ to 109. For example, send ‘UPDATENIN 12345678903 Chidera Abdul-Ola’ to 109.”
The telecom firm also advised customers without a NIN to visit a NIN enrolment centre to get one.
Glo subscribers with additional enquiries are encouraged to contact any of its customer contact channels or to visit https://www.gloworld.com/ng/nin for further support.
Another network, 9mobile also announced the launch of its intelligent portal for instant verification to help its customers to link their SIM cards with their NIN.  The Online Self-Service NIN update portal www.9mobile.com.ng/nin, which has already gone live on the 9mobile website, enables subscribers to verify and update their NINs instantly.
The platform provides 9mobile subscribers an opportunity to submit and verify their NIN without physically visiting any of its Experience Centers.
Apart from the portal, 9mobile has also made available a USSD option *200*8# that allows subscribers to check the matching status of their NIN to their SIM and subsequently submit it for backend verification and mapping.
Commenting on the exercise, the Chief Information Officer, 9mobile, Ibikunle Jimo, said the firm looks out for the convenience of its subscribers by leveraging innovation.
He said: “This solution is differentiator for us since our customers do not need to wait endlessly for the NIN link up with their SIM cards.  This is what it means to use innovation to solve societal challenges for our customers. This solution is the power of the innovation etched in our DNA.
MTN had earlier advised its customers to visit https://t.co/2T3Nc2rV0l to submit their NIN or dial *785# or visit myMTNApp.
“If you don’t have a NIN, please visit an enrollment center and urge your family, friends and everyone you know to do the same. If you have registered for a NIN and wish to retrieve it, please dial *346# using the number registered at enrolment, “its Chief Customer Relations Officer, Ugonwa Nwoye, said.
Airtel had also unveiled its shortcode of *121*1# which it said will facilitate seamless link of NIN with SIMs on its network.
Share this on WhatsApp