Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Lagos State government on Thursday placed a ban on all religious organizations in the state from holding crossover services and vigils into the new year 2021, as part of the measures to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state which the federal government now celebrates the second wave. Accordingly, the state government directed all churches and mosques to suspend all-night services, including vigils and crossover activities into the new year in the state.
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at a media briefing on Thursday at the State House, Marina, Lagos, issued the directive, saying that the curfew imposed by the Federal Government between midnight and 4am daily would be enforced.
Governor Sanwo-Olu emphasized the imperative of the emergency response to contain the second wave of COVID-19, insisting that it would not permit public gatherings and crowding, especially, in yuletide when religious centres would be holding services and vigils.
“All over the world, Christmas period is associated with gathering, merriment and travelling, which all, sadly, contribute to the spread of the virus.
“We must now seek to minimise as much of these activities as we can, at this time. Let this Christmas be a period of sober reflection.
“The quicker we are able to tame this raging virus, through responsible behaviour, the higher the likelihood that we will enjoy the year 2021 that is not as restrictive and challenging as 2020.
“By acting responsibly, we are not doing only ourselves a favour; we are doing other people a favour as well, especially those among us who are elderly or medically vulnerable,” Governor Sanwo-Olu said.
While the governor may be handling the issue of crowded gathering in issuing the directive, the assembly of worshippers at a specific location may not breach the curfew, which imposes sanctions on people wandering on the streets.
Governor Sanwo-Olu also ordered all international passengers arriving in the country through Lagos to subject themselves to COVID-19 test on the seventh day of their arrival.
The governor mandated that all business and social establishments in Lagos must strictly enforce the “No Mask, No Entry” policy.
Sanwo-Olu argued that there was no justification for socialising in the period of public health crisis without exercising caution. Therefore, he said that the state government would bring the weight of the laws on those bent on flouting the state’s regulations and guidelines on coronavirus.
The Governor Sanwo-Olu commended the frontline workers and medical personnel who attended to him during his period of isolation.
Sanwo-Olu declared: “I received very dedicated and competent care from the Lagos State COVID-19 Treatment Team, and I am extremely proud of the work they do.”
Share this on WhatsApp