Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, says he had had nothing to do with the court case challenging the suspension of the defunct National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, which he headed.
Oshiomhole, who made the clarifications in a statement in Abuja, said if another National Executive Committee (NEC) of APC or a court order reverses the dissolution of the former NWC, he will reject any offer to return to office.
He said: “In reporting the legal action taken by a member of the dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), some attributions have been made to the effect that the plaintiff is an “ally of Oshiomhole” or an “associate of Oshiomhole.” This is despite the fact that the court documents are clear on who the plaintiff really is.
He added: “When the National Executive Committee (NEC) in its wisdom dissolved the NWC, I immediately announced publicly that I accepted the decision, regardless of its legality or otherwise, as it affected my position as national chairman. I was the only one at the press conference where I made the announcement.
“The reason, of course, was that some of my colleagues in the dissolved NWC obviously didn’t share my position not to contest the dissolution in court.
He said: “It is, therefore, the height of mischief to insinuate, as it is being done in some quarters, that I would publicly accept the decision and later surreptitiously seek to contest it in court. That chapter of my political life is closed.
“I am proud of the accomplishments of the NWC under my leadership and I am grateful to the principled 18 members who worked as a team committed to the cause of the party.”
Oshiomhole said he is not bitter about his removal from office.
He said he will continue to support the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to succeed in serving the common good of the people of Nigeria.
Oshiomhole stressed: “Above all, I bear no grudge against any one for the manner of my removal. Instead, I am grateful and loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari who in the first place encouraged me to contest the chairmanship of the party.
“I am particularly appreciative of the presidential support and encouragement which enabled me to assert the authority of the party without fear or favour. Indeed, I would not have lasted as long as I did as national chairman but for the President’s support.
“I will therefore continue to support his administration to succeed in serving the common good of the people of Nigeria,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp