Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
As part of efforts to prepare ahead for the local government elections, the Ogun State government has charged the staffers of the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) to embrace attitudinal change towards work and be a Covid-19 compliant by wearing nose mask, washing of hands and use of hands sanitizers at all times.
The Permanent Secretary, OGSIEC, Mrs. Mojisola Dosunmu, made this known during a-day training programme organized for the staff and members of the commission held at OGSIEC office, Oke-Ilewo, Abeokuta, Ogun State.
According to Mrs. Dosunmu, “the programme was birthed in order to further encourage the staffers to gear-up to their attitude to work, as well as adhering strictly to preventive measures of covid-19, especially in their offices as the virus still very much within,” noting, “it was important to prevent ourselves from contacting it than be looking for the cure.”
One of the resource persons, Mrs. Idowu Kehinde, Director, Management Services and Zonal Administration, implored the staffers to cultivate the right attitude to work, while upholding the principles and ethics of the civil service, as this would foster achievement of organizational goals set by the government.
She added that officers should be willing and ready to learn as well as be a team player at every point in time, saying this will enhance their productivity at the workplace, especially through working together as a team.
Also, Dr. Olalekan Sodeinde of the State Ministry of health, said Covid-19 was very much within, noting that observing physical distance reduces the risk of contact with droplets from an infected person’s sneeze/cough.
Dr. Sodeinde admonished the staff and management of the Commission to always wear a face mask, wash their hands frequently with soap under running water, cough/sneeze into their bent elbow and maintain physical distance, saying that as far as there are no vaccines for the virus yet, the state government was taking laudable steps to stem the communal spread of the virus, by creating centers across the 20 local government areas of the state for free Covid-19 testing and home treatment packages for people with mild symptoms.
Share this on WhatsApp