Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The First Lady of Nigeria, wife of Prescient Muhammadu Buhari, Hajia Aisha Buhari, has charged First Ladies of the various states to mobilise and engage women and youth for peace building, conflict prevention, management and resolution at grassroots level. Hajia Aisha Buhari, represented by Dr. Hajo Sani, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration and Women Affairs, at a Seminar on mobilization of Women and Youth for peace building, community conflict resolution and resilience in the post-COVID-19 era, on Friday,  noted that COVID-19 pandemic has created a global crisis as evidenced in the anger, protests, and demonstrations happening around the world as well as the violence, to which most victims are women and youths.
Mrs. Buhari further observed that young people and women are particularly vulnerable to the disruptions of the pandemic as many of them are now at risk of being left behind in education, economic opportunities, as well as health and wellbeing during a crucial stage of their life.
“We therefore have a duty to mobilize women and youth for peace building, community conflict resolution and resilience. This falls more appropriately upon those in positions of authority such as the First Ladies,” She said.
Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, who was represented by her Special Assistant (Technical), Princess Jummai Idonije, said women can’t be silent, when all around the world, people are hurting and crying out. She noted that women’s sense of justice will continue to drive them to advocate for a better world.  The Ministry, she said, will continue to provide the enabling platform for the creation of a society that is fit for all. She called on Nigerians, both individuals and groups, to continue to emphasize education of the girl-child and promotion of second chance education to address societal vices.
Keynote Speaker at the event, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, First Lady of Ekiti State, highlighted the role of First Ladies in the states, calling on them to take the lead in times of crisis by creating a network of allies as well as using their voices and presence to communicate with a sense of urgency. She urged them to be informed on important issues at all times, set timely targets for action and create time to manage them.
Other speakers at the event include Ms. Ndidi Njoku, Chair, African Foundation for Development, (AFFORD, UK), Helen Grant, UK Trade Envoy to Nigeria and Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission.
Share this on WhatsApp