Share this on WhatsApp
 


A northern governor has been identified as the sponsor of bandits and killers overrunning the northwestern region.
Nigeria’s intelligence community and security agencies are aware of this.
The ruling APC has therefore come out to challenge the security agencies to investigate and bring the governor to book.
Yekini Nabena, the APC acting National Publicity Secretary on Thursday, said he would not name the governor because of the “security nature of the issue.
He, however, insisted the increased spate of banditry in the north-west is politically-motivated, and connected to the governor.
“Our security agencies have intelligence reports linking one of the northwest governors of colluding and sponsoring the violent and criminal activities of bandits in the zone,” he said.
The seven states of the northwest are lagely APC-controlled except two—Sokoto and Zamfara which are PDP’s.
Nabena said,“Relevant security agencies must, as a matter of urgency, investigate the report and determine its veracity. Human life is not what we should play political chess games with.”
He also dragged the PDP into it, warning we must shun enemies of the country, including the Peoples Democratic Party, who seek political gains from issues of insecurity.”
“Our security agencies must also be alert to plots to destabilise the North-west region further and frustrate the quick and safe release of students abducted from Government Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State,” the party said in a statement.
The party also warned the opposition PDP from politicising the abduction of schoolboys in Katsina state, accusing it of seeking political gains from issues of insecurity.
He was referring to the the PDP whose chairman Uche Secondus led a Bring Babck Our Boys rally in Abuja on Thursday.
This is not the first time the news of a northern governor sponsoring violence will make the rounds.
A failed presidential candidate Obadiah Mailafia said months ago he got intelligence that a northern governor commands Boko Haram in Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp