Share this on WhatsApp








By Kingsley Chukwuka

The Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), mandated to restore peace in Plateau, some parts of Bauchi and Southern Kaduna, has arrested armed robbers, kidnappers and other hoodlums who are bent on cursing havock during the Christmas celebration.

Commander of the Task Force, Maj. Gen. Chukwuemeka Okonkwo said troops intercepted bandits in Southern Kaduna who are specialist in obtaining belongings from innocent citizens through firearms.

Okonkwo who spoke through the OPSH spokesman, Major Ibrahim Shittu, said troops will continue to dominate it’s Joint Operational Area with aggressive patrols and sustained coordinated operations against kidnappers, armed robbers and bandits.

According to him: “On 24 December 2020 at about 8:00am, troops of OPSH following a tip off arrested a notorious armed robber, Mr Samaila Bayers at Bayan, Gidan Waya in Jama’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State”.

Still enumerating it’s success in ridding it’s surveillance areas of bandits, the General said on the same day, at about 11:11pm, gallant troops also swiftly responded to a report of sporadic shootings around Kamuru Chawai Ward, Damakasuwa District in Kauru Local Government Area of Kaduna State.

He said the timely response by the troops forced the bandits attempting to attack Angwan Rimi Village in Southern Kaduna to abandon their mission.

“Clearance operation is still ongoing to deny the armed bandits freedom of action”, he said.

“In a related development, on 24 December 2020, at about 8:00pm, troops of OPSH on patrol responded to an armed robbery attack on a private Sharon Vehicle heading from Abuja to Dogon – Fili, along Road Aboro in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The armed robbers ran out of luck as the troops neutralized one of them while other escaped with gunshot wounds. Efforts are ongoing to apprehend the escaped armed robbers. Sadly, the criminals had shot the driver of the vehicle, Mr Richard Sabo before arrival of the troops”, Okonkwo said.

OPSH said all major routes in and out of it’s operational area are manned by troops and dominated by patrols to prevent attacks and robbery incidents as much as possible.












Share this on WhatsApp