Share this on WhatsApp
 


A media aide to President Muhammadu Buhari claimed early Tuesday his boss didn’t get the daily briefing of Kankara kidnap until he came back from visiting his cattle in Daura Saturday morning.
Garba Sheu has a lot to prove to sell this to Nigerians who already believe Buhari is demented, lifeless or wicked after a video trended online showing the president visiting his ranch.
Moreover, the statement by the Defence Headquarters  earlier today revealed the federal troops responded—at about 11 pm—to the abduction of hundreds of schoolboys by Boko Haram terrorists who rode in on motorbikes.
Many believe if the military responded that night, it will be a stretch to say the C-in-C didn’t hear about the abduction until the following afternoon, especially that Buhari was in his hometown Daura close to the scene of the incident.
Stories are now making the round Buhari was briefed that night, and he woke up heading for his farm instead.
It wasn’t wickedness.
According to Sahara Reporters, it was dementia, an age-induced memory loss and scatter-brained tendency compounded by grievous illness—in case of the president.
Quoting a top source in the presidency, Sahara Reporters said Buhari’s dementia affected him once again, and made him visit his livestock farm on Saturday morning instead of visiting Kankara.
“The moment it happened on Friday night, President Buhari was told. But due to dementia, he had forgotten,” a source told SaharaReporters.
It added that the fear of an episode made the presidency rule off Buhari’s appearance before the House of Reps last week, after he himself assured the federal lawmakers he would come to brief them on the security situation in Nigeria.
Sheu however said Aso Rock won’ engage in politics with those calling Buhari demented or wicked.
“Let me tell you; we are careful about one thing. We don’t want politics to divert attention from rescuing these boys. So all this ‘touts’, we will ignore them because the focus is on rescuing these boys. By God’s grace, they will be freed, and when they are back with their families, we will engage in politics,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp