Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
President Muhammadu Buhari in his Christmas message to Nigerians on Thursday, expressed support for the failure of the Nigerian military to contain insecurity across the country. The president in his endorsement of the failure of the security apparatuses to combat the Boko Haram terrorists in the northeast, bandits in the northwest and north central, and kidnappers in all parts of Nigeria, begged Nigerians for more time and support for the military to perform after six years in office.
President Buhari stated: “I plead with fellow compatriots to give our military and other security agencies more time, cooperation, and support by volunteering credible intelligence/information on activities of armed bandits, insurgents, and other criminal elements within their communities in order to put an end to this blight on our security landscape.”
The President observed that the Christmas season represents joy, peace, hope, love, goodwill, and imminent salvation. He, however, covertly pointed out that these values no longer exist in Nigeria of today.
“These worthy values which Jesus’ Advent symbolize, are very much needed in our country at this time when we are confronted with diverse challenges like rising spate of armed banditry, kidnappings, insurgency, economic recession, and an upsurge of COVID-19 infections.
“I wish to, therefore, enjoin fellow compatriots to appropriate the hope that comes with Christmas and reinvest trust in this Administration’s determination and unwavering commitment to restore peace, security and prosperity to our dear country.
“Under my watch, the Federal Government will continue to provide the needed support within available resources to the gallant members of our armed forces and security agencies as they confront threats to our citizens,” President Buhari declared.
The President commended the Armed Forces for their efforts so far, urging them to do more to checkmate increasing incidents of security threats especially in the northern parts of the country as well as the entire nation in varying degrees. Their display of tact, camaraderie, and expertise that led to the recent return of the controversially abducted schoolboys of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, will remain a milestone in the annals of the country, Buhari said.
“For me, providing security for all residents in the country remains an article of faith. It formed a vital segment of this Administration’s three-point agenda right from inception, and we must follow through with it.
“I cannot in good conscience shirk this cardinal responsibility to secure lives and property. I feel pained each time a breach of peace and security occurs in any part of the nation. I am even more distressed when our youths, especially school children, are the targets and victims of mindless and malevolent elements in society. As a parent, I share the emotional torture and agony parents and guardians go through whenever their children and wards fall into the cruel hands of these enemies of decency and good society.
“To be sure, the problems are beyond the simplistic options being bandied around. We shall remain focused on following the complex, multi-dimensional route to reducing the incidents of insecurity to the barest minimum. Our people must be free to live and move without let or hindrance. This is crucial not only to enthroning an atmosphere of calm and social cohesion, but for the economy to grow,” Buhari declared.
He enjoined Christians to use this season of goodwill and joy to renew our faith in the ability of this Administration to make a lasting difference in the lives of our hard-working people.
“Our Social Intervention measures and other economic policies are already yielding positive results even at modest rates.
“We shall deliberately target our youths so that they will not fall into the trap of unpatriotic elements to foment social disobedience leading to avoidable loss of lives and property.
“Let me reiterate that while the right to peaceful association and protest is guaranteed under our laws, this Administration will not fold its arms and watch protests however well-intended, degenerate into wanton killings of law enforcement and other security personnel as well as the destruction of private and national assets,” Buhari stated.
President Buhari further highlighted that various schemes and components of the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) are being implemented faithfully to support micro-small businesses.
“I am particularly delighted that artisans, small-time transporters, traders and farmers are the main beneficiaries as we continue to provide safety nets to the most vulnerable members of our society as well as business owners to mitigate the harsh economic environment occasioned by COVID-19.
“In spite of dwindling national revenue worsened by the pandemic, we will do all that is required to fully implement the 2021 Budget of Economic Recovery and Resilience. We are optimistic that all things being equal, we should be able to exit recession at the shortest possible time.
“As we celebrate Christmas with families and friends, I urge all citizens and residents to adhere strictly to the non-pharmaceutical prevention guidelines of regular hand-washing, wearing masks, and social/physical distancing with a view to mitigating the spread of this devastating virus. While national and state institutions are trying their best, we must take individual responsibility and resist the strong temptation of compliance-fatigue by following the recommended protocols put in place by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and beat the ravaging pandemic.
“I have absolute confidence in the spirit of resilience of our people to do the needful and remain vigilant even as this festive season witnesses increased travels and celebrations. Staying alive to enjoy future festivals should be the watchword.
“I wish all Nigerians divine protection and Merry Christmas,” President Buhari stated.
 
Share this on WhatsApp