Share this on WhatsApp
 


A former sales executive for the pharmaceutical company Merck and the founder of learntherisk.org, a website dedicated to educating people on the risks associated with vaccines, Brandy Vaughan, has been reported dead.
Vaughan, who is said to have died of “gallbladder complications,” although the source of the report has not been cited, was apparently found dead by her nine-year-old son on December 8.
Soon after learning of her death, a friend of Vaughn’s, Erin Elizabeth, shared screenshots of a Facebook post Vaughan had written in December of 2019, in which she assured readers that she was not suicidal and did not take any drugs that would cause her to die suddenly.
“The post I wish I didn’t have to write…. But given certain tragedies over the last couple of years, I feel it’s absolutely necessary to post these ten facts… please screenshot this for the record,” wrote Vaughan.
“I have a huge mission in this life. Even when they make it very difficult and scary, I would NEVER take my own life. Period,” she continued.
Referring to her son, Vaughan wrote, “Bastien means everything to me and I would NEVER leave him. Period. She added that she hadn’t taken pharmaceuticals for ten years. “In other words, I’m not on anything that could kill me unexpectedly or suddenly,” she wrote.
 
“If something were to happen to me, its foul play and you know exactly who and why — given my work and mission in this life,” she continued.
Vaccine safety has come under scrutiny during the coronavirus outbreak, with pro-lifers expressing concern about the connection of vaccines to abortion, among other concerns.
Elizabeth also shared a screenshot of a text she received from Vaughan in which she expressed worry about being poisoned and apparently referenced the death of Dr. Ben Johnson, M.D., D.O., NMD in January of 2019.
Vaughan, who used to work as a pharmaceutical sales representative for Merck, explained how she got started as an activist exposing the dangers of vaccines and pharmaceutical industry in a video shared in 2015. She begins by revealing that she used to represent Merck’s drug Vioxx.
Part of what she discovered is that aluminum is a major adjuvant in vaccines, which was another big “red flag” for her. When her grandmother was diagnosed with breast cancer, the doctor found high levels of aluminum in her tissues. He told her that the aluminum found in traditional deodorant was linked to breast cancer.
Vaughan went on to found Learn The Risk, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, “in response to one of the nation’s first mandatory vaccination for education laws — SB277 in California,” according to her website. SB277, which was signed into law in 2015, “barred parents from citing their personal beliefs as a reason for not vaccinating their children” for school.
In her 2019 Facebook post, Vaughan wrote, “If something were to happen to me, I have arranged for a close group of my friends to start a GoFundMe to hire a team of private investigators to figure out all the details.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp