Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Nigerian government has assured of procuring coronavirus vaccine which according to the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, may be administered from the beginning of 2021. The Health Minister at the 28th Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Council Chamber of the State House, Abuja, presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday alerted that Nigerians should expect to receive the COVID-19 vaccine by the end of January 2021.
The Minister disclosed that a technical team in the Ministry of Health is working on which vaccine will best suit Nigeria.
President Muhammadu Buhari, on a private visit to Daura, his country home in Katsina State, joined the meeting virtually.
To commence the meeting, the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Munguno (retd), said the Muslim opening prayer while the minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, said the Christian prayer.
The Permanent Secretary, Ecological Funds Office, Mrs. Habiba Lawal, represented the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who is self-isolating with his wife after some members of his family tested positive for COVID-19; the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, was also in attendance at the meeting.
Some present at the meeting include  the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello, Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, Minister of Agriculture, Sabo Nanono; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami and the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika.
Others inlcude the Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi (retd), Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abubakar; Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi; Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva and Minister of State for the Environment, Sharon Ikpeazu.
The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, was also present at the meeting.
Share this on WhatsApp