Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
President Muhammadu Buhari at the induction and commissioning of newly acquired NAF MI-171E Helicopter and two reactivated Alpha Jets and one L39ZA aircraft, belonging to the Nigerian Air Force, on Thursday in Abuja reassured that his administration remains unyielding in confronting the Boko Haram terrorism in the northeast, bandits in the northwest, as well as other forms of crimes plaguing the country.
President Buhari, while giving the assurance at the induction and commissioning ceremony of newly acquired NAF MI-171E Helicopter and two reactivated Alpha Jets and one L39ZA aircraft, belonging to the Nigerian Air Force, promised that his administration will continue to support the Air Force in any way it can to help it become more effective in the execution of its mandate for the safety and security of the country.
Buhari disclosed that his administration has boosted the capacity of the Nigerian Air Force by 23 brand new aircraft in recent times, adding that more are still on the way.
Buhari declared: “Today’s induction brings to 23 the number of brand new aircraft that have been added to the inventory of the Nigerian Air Force since we came on board in 2015 and is a clear reflection of our unflinching commitment to ensuring the security of Nigeria and Nigerians.
“These 23 new aircraft are aside the 15 additional aircraft, including 12 Super Tucano aircraft from the United States of America and 3 JF-17 Thunder Multi-Role Fighter aircraft from Pakistan that have been procured and will soon be delivered.”
The President indicated that these are in addition to the support towards reactivating over 25 erstwhile unserviceable aircraft thereby significantly boosting the capacity of the Service to deliver robust air power in support of the nation’s counter terrorism and counter insurgency efforts.
President Buhari said that he has released two Agusta 101 helicopters from the Presidential Air Fleet to the Nigerian Air Force to improve its tactical lift capability.
Buhari commended the security forces for successes recorded so far especially by restoring “some level of stability not only in Borno and Yobe states but also in Adamawa State.
“Consequently, I want to sincerely thank Nigerians for believing in us and coming together as a Nation, irrespective of political, religious and ethnic affiliations, to bring this scourge to an end,” he said.
President Buhari highlighted critical roles of the Air Force in internal security as well as international operations, highlighting: “It is noteworthy that our Air Force has, since its establishment in 1964, been playing critical roles in national security as well as in peace-keeping operations on the African continent.
“Her contributions in internal security, peace keeping and humanitarian operations in places like The Gambia, Guinea Conakry, Mozambique, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Mali, Guinea Bissau and Cameroon have not only been a source of pride to us as a Nation but has also projected us as a reliable regional power that has helped stabilise other nations and stood firm in defence of democracy.
“This is indeed most commendable as the Nigerian Air Force, alongside other Services, continues to play its unique role in the counter-insurgency operations in the North East and anti-banditry operations in the North West as well as other operations in other parts of the country where our officers, airmen and airwomen, soldiers and ratings are performing gallantly.”
The Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (rtd) had earlier remarked that “President Buhari, since assumption of office, prioritised national security at the top of his agenda and part of it is reequipping the Armed Forces to enhance their operational effectiveness.”
Magashi encouraged the Nigerian Air Force to abide by the maintenance schedules of the aircraft to enable the nation to get the best out of them.
The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, assured President Buhari of the “unalloyed loyalty of the Nigerian Air Force and readiness to relentlessly work for the protection of our country.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp