Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is not ready for the 2023 general elections, accusing the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus and the National Working Committee (NWC) of deepening the cracks in the party.
Wike, while speaking on a live television programme in Port Harcourt on Friday, said it was regrettable that instead of capitalising on the inefficiency and maladministration that has characterised the All Progressives Congress, APC’s five years in power, PDP’s NWC is deepening cracks in the party.
He explained that rather than focus on strategies on how to take advantage of the growing disenchantment with the APC government, the NWC is sowing seed of discord among governors using two former governors of Imo and Cross River States and present Senator from Benue State.
The governor said because he lacked the ability to defect to the APC or another political party, he would continue to do what he could to ensure the survival of the PDP.
“I will not allow anybody to kill PDP. They have the capacity to move to APC. I don’t and I cannot move to APC. So, anybody that tries to do something to destroy PDP, I will not allow you. Anybody that I see that has the trait to destroy the PDP, I will not allow it,” he said.
He described as disingenuous the decision of the NWC to jettison the recommendations of Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom led committee set up to reconcile the party in Niger and Plateau States, just because of its vested interest in Niger State.
The governor accused the current leadership of NWC of merely being interested in retaining the current structure of the party to remain in power, and not to win the 2023 election.
“The present National Working Committee is not interested or doing anything to take over the realms of government in 2023. When your interest is to remain in power, you are no longer interested in winning elections.”
Wike also said the level of insecurity leading to deaths, particularly in Borno State and other parts of the country ought to have compelled Buhari to keep his promise of honouring the invitation by the House of Representatives.
He pointed out that it was APC members who control the majority in the National Assembly that moved the motion to invite the President to address them on what measures are being taken to tackle and end the spate of violent killings, to which he consented.
To end the spate of violent crime in the country, Wike recommended the creation of employment opportunities for youths and drastic change to the operational system of policing in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp