Governor Seyi Makinde
        Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has approved the holding of December 31 crossover services into the new year 2021 by churches in Oyo State.
The governor in a statement issued on Wednesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, maintained that the worship centres must adhere strictly to the guidelines prescribed for the prevention of the spread of coronavirus in the country by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Accordingly, Governor Makinde suspended the 12.00am to 4.00a.m curfew imposed on the various states by the PTF.
The statement read in part: “The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has approved the suspension of the 12 a.m. to 4 a.m. curfew earlier imposed on states by the Federal Government, saying that officials of the State’s Task Force on Covid-19 will ensure strict compliance to the guidelines and advisories during the Yuletide and after.
“The governor, has, therefore, directed that religious centres be allowed to hold crossover worship services only in strict compliance with COVID-19 protocols.”
Governor Makinde issued the directives after consultation and endorsement by the Chairman of the Oyo State Technical Team of the COVID-19 Task Force, Professor Temitope Alonge, where the earlier announcement of the Technical Team was reviewed, leading to the lifting of the curfew to enable Christians exercise their freedom of worship.
The governor insisted om observance of earlier advisories of the Task Force which include the directive on 50 per cent capacity for worship and event centres, ban on street carnivals and others, which he said remain in force.
The Oyo State Task Force on COVID-19 in a communique last Tuesday had admonished residents, families and corporate organisations in the state to adhere to protocols such as the use of face masks in public places, social distancing and regular washing of hands.
The Task Force had further directed residents of the state, including private healthcare providers and individuals feeling unwell, to access the available testing centres across the 33 local government areas of the state.
Meanwhile, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has threatened to enforce the 12 midnight to 4.00a.m curfew imposed by the PTF in Lagos State. The governor further banned crossover services by churches in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp