Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The presidential ambition of former governor of Lagos state and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, got a boost recently as a coalition of former expressed their support for his ambition come 2023.
The group, under the aegis of South West Agenda (SWAGA) and led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye, spoke at the unveiling of the group’s logo in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital.
It comprises politicians including the immediate former Oyo State Deputy Governor Alake Adeyemo, Senator Adesoji Akanbi and former members of House of Representatives, including Bosun Oladele and Rotimi Makinde.
Also in attendance yesterday were former Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Adeyemi Ikuforiji; his Ogun State counterpart, Suraj Adekunbi  and Senator Abu Ibrahim (Kastina South) who was represented by Dr. Aliyu Zakari-Diya.
The group started the campaign on Monday with visits to the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji and Alaafin of Oyo Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III during which they conveyed its agenda to the leading monarchs.
The group said members came together to actualise the agenda for the Southwest to produce the next President in 2023.
Adeyeye told the two monarchs that SWAGA was aimed at ensuring that an electable political leader from the Southwest gets the necessary support to succeed President Buhari in 2023.
He noted that Asiwaju Tinubu possesses all the qualities and experiences needed to lead Nigeria as the next President.
Besides, Adeyeye revealed that there was an agreement among APC leaders during the 2015 election that presidential power would rotate to the South after President Buhari’s eight-year tenure.
He said: “We have a joker that others don’t have. That is Asiwaju. He has no peers in Nigeria today. That’s why we are confident that the Yoruba will produce the next President. Asiwaju Tinubu is not only qualified, he offered good governance in Lagos. Prior to that, he was an active member of defunct National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). After Abiola, the next eminently qualified candidate we have is Asiwaju Tinubu.”
Oba Adetunji hailed members of the group for taking the bold step to advance the interest of the Yoruba.
He said the Yoruba played key roles in the struggle for Nigeria’s independence and development, adding that they deserve top roles in government, particularly those eminently qualified Yoruba compatriots.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp