Share this on WhatsAppBillions of viewers, Christians and non-Christians stayed tuned to their TV sets across the world for the fourth edition of Global Day of Prayer that took place Dec.1 to 2.

Led by Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, president of the LoveWorld Nation, the event has become a rallying point of intercessory prayers by Christians all over the world.

Quoting Act 6 v 2, Pastor Chris reminded the audience the secret of the Apostolic success—continual prayer—the Bible records for the early Christians.

“Prayer is our way of not just communicating with the father but of speaking his word,” he said. “Now that is issuing decrees. It’s a special kind of prayer. You have to determine what should happen.”

The fourth edition, participants said, brought a new wave of glory with round the clock intercessory prayers from 6pm GMT+1 (1pm EST) on Tuesday December 1, through Wednesday 2, 2020.

Apart from the millions connected to LoveWorld Networks, millions of others also connected to over 800 terrestrial TV stations, radio stations and internet platforms that broadcast the event live.

Speaking about the times, Pastor Chris said God has graciously called Christians for this time.

“It is not a surprise. We are prepared for this time. God knew what was coming and he prepared us years ago and we are ready to meet the challenges of the times and to win,” he said.

 “And I told you that 2020 was to be the year of perfection; alignment.”

The first edition of the Global Day of Prayer held on March 27, 2020, recorded a global participation of over three billion people from every nation of the world.

The second and third editions had over 3.5 billion people participating.

The year-long global prayer network with Pastor Chris, which commenced January 6, 2020, will continue till January 6, 2021.

In the 340 days of 2020 so far, members of the Loveworld Nation and partner Ministries have been praying without ceasing for over 8,040 hours which is 482,400 minutes. And participation has been from over 300 nations and territories.

Director of Programmes and Corporate Affairs of the Ministry, Pastor Ifeoma Chiemeka, encouraged as many who are interested in the event to “visit www.pastorchrisonline.org to register to participate.
Share this on WhatsApp