Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Bishop Matthew Kukah, on Friday berated President Muhammad Buhari over the practice of nepotism in his leadership of Nigeria. The erudite cleric in his 2020 Christmas message titled: “A nation in search of vindication”, asserted that there could have been a coup in Nigeria if a non-northern Muslim president did a fraction of what Buhari has done.
Bishop Kukah decried that the Buhari administration is institutionalizing northern hegemony by “reducing others in public life to second-class status”.
Bishop Kukah declared: “This government owes the nation an explanation as to where it is headed as we seem to journey into darkness.
“The spilling of this blood must be related to a more sinister plot that is beyond our comprehension.
“Are we going to remain hogtied by these evil men or are they gradually becoming part of a larger plot to seal the fate of our country?
“President Buhari deliberately sacrificed the dreams of those who voted for him to what seemed like a programme to stratify and institutionalise northern hegemony. He has pursued this self-defeating and alienating policy at the expense of greater national cohesion.
“Every honest Nigerian knows that there is no way any non-Northern Muslim President could have done a fraction of what President Buhari has done by his nepotism and gotten away with it.”
 
Bishop Kukah lamented pointed out that Nigeria is becoming a country without direction, lacking visionary leadership. he lamented the inability of Nigeria to feed its citizens, saying it is one of the most dangerous signs of state failure and a stimulant for violence.
The Bishop of Sokoto Diocese stated: “As our country drifts almost rudderless, we seem like people travelling without maps, without destination and with neither Captain nor Crew. Citizens have nowhere to turn to.
“Our country’s inability to feed itself is one of the most dangerous signs of state failure and a trigger to violence.”
Share this on WhatsApp