Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State has blasted the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, over his statement on the security situation in Edo State. The party protested that Ize-Iyamu was speaking out of ignorance, inexperience and rage on the security of the state.
PDP State Publicity, Chris Osa Nehikhare, indicated in a statement that Ize-Iyamu betrayed his inexperience about governance in his comment, saying that security issues are delicate and not items with which to play to the gallery.
The State Publicity Secretary declared:  “The Governor Godwin Obaseki administration is confronting a security challenge that is ravaging the entire country and the governor has shown grace, commitment and tact in handling the peculiar situation we have in Edo State. There is no denying that the security situation is challenging, but the state government has committed material and human resources to tackle the situation headlong and we are seeing the results by the day.
“The efforts being made are strategic and are not things to put out in the public at every turn. There is a method to security communication, and it is not a task to be driven by propaganda and unwarranted posturing. The governor is dealing with intelligence from a joint taskforce, which he continues to meet at regular intervals. Some of the intelligence gathered are being deployed in bursting criminal hideouts, apprehending criminals and safeguarding the people.”
Nehikhare chided Ize-Iyamu and his supporters, noting that their utterances were not unexpected, adding that they reflected  how inexperience they are and why they would continue to be on the backfoot in terms of strategic planning and handling of delicate matter of public safety and security.
“The governor has been quite alive to his duties and invited senior officers of 2 Division Nigerian Army to support and boost the morale of the joint operation in the state. They have reinforced the 10pm curfew, burst criminal hideouts, apprehended kidnapping syndicates and gradually restoring order in the state. The governor has also provided support to the two Federal Correctional Centres that were attacked when hoodlums hijacked the #EndSARS protests in the state. The engagements are still ongoing.
“The irresponsible statement can only come from a group of people that have fallen out of favour with the people. Their inexperience and lack of tact goes way back and shows why they will continue to fail. Edo people know that they are only out to make irresponsible statements to procure cheap sympathy. This is why the statement is not only irresponsible but coming from deep-seated rage over their recent loss,” the PDP State Publicity Secretary declared.
 
Share this on WhatsApp