Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A bomb explosion on Tuesday killed a deputy governor and his aide instantly. The deputy governor was on his way to the office when the bomb attached to his vehicle unknowingly detonated, killing the deputy governor and one of his aides, injuring others in the convoy.
It was gathered that a deputy governor of Kabul province and his aide on Tuesday died in a bomb explosion in the Afghan capital.
Officials of the Interior Ministry said the Deputy Governor, Mahbobullah Mohebi, died when a bomb attached to his vehicle detonated while he was on his way to his office.
Mohebi’s secretary, who was traveling with him, was also killed, and two bodyguards were wounded.
It was gathered that hours later, another bomb explosion killed Abdul Rahman Akshan, the -deputy chief of the provincial council – in the central province of Ghor.
A local official said that Akshan was killed while his two bodyguards were wounded when a “sticky bomb” attached to his vehicle detonated in the city of Feroz Koh.
It was said that violence escalated across the country since the Taliban and the Afghan government launched peace talks in Qatar in September 2020.
It was highlighted that Afghanistan, especially Kabul, has been a theatre of murders of prominent figures, including journalists, clerics, politicians, and rights activists.
It was disclosed that a female news anchor was shot dead in the eastern city of Jalalabad last week, the second journalist to be murdered in less than one month.
Also, the capital was said to have been hit by rockets two times in the month of December, in addition to major attacks on educational centres, including a massacre of students at a university campus.
It was narrated that in a separate attack in Kabul on Tuesday, a policeman was killed, and two others wounded when gunmen attacked their checkpoint.
Peace talks were said to have been suspended until January 2021, with government negotiators expected to return to Kabul from Qatar this week to meet with senior officials.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and some other senior officials were said to have called for talks to be moved to Afghanistan from Doha.
 
Share this on WhatsApp