Share this on WhatsApp
 


Although APC’s national leader Bola Tinubu has not stated categorically is up for contesting the presidency in 2023, his supporters and loyalists across the nation began mobilizing last year, and the southwest team took it further  in Oyo.
Oyo is the only PDP state in the southwest, and it seemed wise for the Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA) to begin its mobilization from the state’s capital Oyo.
The campaign committee the former Minister  Adedayo Adeyeye, from Ekiti State, led visited the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, and the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, for prayers in their respective palaces, on Monday.
The inauguration took place at the Mauve 21 Event Centre where political allies and foot soldiers of the former governor of Lagos met.
“For the discerning mind, 2023 election is already on the front burner of national discourse. The discussion right now everywhere in the country is about what should and should not happen in 2023. That being the case, it is imperative that we should be part of these national discussions and activities,” said Adeyeye.
“We are asking him to come out and we are asking the entire people of the South-West to rally round him to make him the next president of Nigeria. Every geo-political zone in the South has the right to produce a candidate, but the one that work harder would emerge. Don’t forget, all the citizens of Nigeria will vote to choose the next president.”
Delegates from Lagos described Tinubu as the architect of modern Lagos, the pillar of Nigeria. Reps from Osun said he took their people from where a former governor imprisoned them for three and half years. And supporters from Ogun said Tinubu’s administration gave the Gateway State a model of governance and development.
Various groups rooting for the APC strongman intensified their earlier in the year when it was clear  the ruling party is tipping the scale in favour of the southwest in 2023.
Apart from Adeyeye, others present at the inauguration were former minister of state for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro; Chairman, Planning Committee of SWAGA 2023, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Senator Adesoji Akanbi, representing Oyo South Senatorial District; former House of Representatives member, Otunba Abayomi Ogunnusi.
Share this on WhatsApp