Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 on Thursday affirmed that the 12.00am-4.00am curfew earlier imposed by the Task Force is still in place as second wave of coronavirus threatens Nigeria.
Dr. Sani Aliyu, National Coordinator of the PTF, at the Media briefing on Thursday in Abuja, reiterated that the early hours curfew is still in force. The reminder is coming as Christians celebrate the 2020 Christmas amidst wide preparations for the crossover in the new year, 2021.
Many, however, fear that the Nigerian PTF relies mostly stereotype policies on coronavirus both in conception and responses as adopted in Europe and America. The Nigerian PTF is widely perceived to lack independent initiatives on coronavirus but copies the foreign propaganda on the coronavirus infection.
Meanwhile, Dr. Sani Aliyu, National Coordinator of the PTF, on Thursday, announced new protocols as part of measures to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. The PTF ordered the closure of bars and clubs in various parts of the country. Aliyu implored the security agencies to enforce the protocols on the use of face masks and physical distancing. The national coordinator reiterated the directive to civil servants on Grade Level 12 and below to, henceforth, work from home, mandating the permanent secretaries in the respective ministries to enforce the order.
Dr. Aliyu told state governments to delay the resumption of schools until at least January 18, 2021, also telling them not to close coronavirus treatment centres in the respective states.
The PTF coordinator revealed that from Monday next week, all passengers coming into Nigeria from the United Kinfdom (UK) and South Africa would be compelled to provide their details on the online portal. He maintained that they will also be made to pay for PCR testing on arrival and must test negative and be presented a permit to travel before they will be allowed into Nigeria.
The PTF national coordinator also disclosed that the federal government will open a register for all passengers from the two countries and ensure that they take the test after seven days. Aliyu promised that the Federal Government would ensure that those who evade the process are sanctioned.
The PTF Chairman, Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), was present at the Media briefing. Other participants include the Minister of State for Health, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora, and the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu.
The PTF did not clarify the enforcement of the 12.00am to 4.00am curfew in view of the gathering of Christians in one location of worship overnight.
 
Share this on WhatsApp