Manchester United have commenced with the process of their team overhaul.
The attempt is for the Old Trafford club to rebuild a formidable team that can once again dominate world football and restore their glory days.
It has been reported of United’s determination to promote home talents of which they are relatively making a progress with capture of Harry Maguire, Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Daniel James.
United successfully captured Maguire, Wan-Bissaka and James last summer
The Red Devils have not hidden their interest in the pursuit of Leicester City midfielder James Maddison and report reaching National Daily reveals that the Red Devils could finally have their man this summer.
The English playmaker has reportedly decided he wants a move to the Old Trafford in the summer.
Maddison is considering a new contract offer from the Foxes as they look to tempt him to commit his future to the club as one of their highest earning players.
But despite the chance to increase his wages at the King Power Stadium, National Daily learnt from the report by the Manchester Evening News that Maddison does want an Old Trafford switch.
Maddison can help add further creativity in United’s midfield
The report claims that there are still numerous factors at play which could impact a summer move, but Maddison has been earmarked as their top playmaker target and ‘would have been at United years ago’ if he had a chance.
Recall that United just signed Bruno Fernandes last January, but it is understood  that the United hierarchy still want Maddison or Aston Villa’s Jack Grealish as they aim to add more creativity to their squad.
They are said to have budgeted for between three and give signings across the two transfer windows in 2020 and will sign at least three new players in the summer.
Earlier report also revealed that United are poised to land Jadon Sancho from Borussia Dortmund in the summer.
Maddison has played a crucial role for Leicester since his £24million switch from Norwich in 2018, helping them up to third in the Premier League table.
Leicester City already sold Harry Maguire to United for a huge fee in the summer but Maddison could attract a higher price as he aims to secure a switch to Old Trafford.




			
			PV: 
			0