The Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday convicted Olisa Metuh, former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), having been found guilty of money laundering of N400 million.
The presiding judge, Justice Okon Abang, delivering judgement in the suit instituted against Metuh by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), convicted the former PDP Publicity Secretary on count one of the charges.
EFCC slammed Metuh, standing trial alongside his company, Destra investment, with seven count charges on criminal diversion of the money received from the office of the former National Security Adviser (NSA), Colonel Sambo Dasuki (rtd).
The Judge declared: “It is my view that Metuh took possession of the N400 million from the office of the NSA without contractual agreement; he is guilty of money laundering and is hereby convicted on count one.”
After the conviction, Justice Abang suspended reading the judgment to allow Metuh use the gents.
On his return to the courtroom, Justice Abang proceeded with his judgement on the second count of the charges which bordered on the criminal conversion of N400 million.
The judge stated that the evidence before him shows that the money was used to fund activities of the PDP. He maintained that Metuh used the money to acquire a property at Banana Island in Lagos.
Justice Abang remarked that this was contrary to the e-payment mandate which stated that the money was meant for security services, whereas Dextra Investment was not a registered security outfit.
Justice Abang insisted that the evidence pointed to the fact that the money was deliberately laundered to brighten the chances of the PDP during the general elections in 2015.
He noted that Metuh failed to explain the transfer of N50 million from the N400 million to the joint account of himself and his wife
“It is, therefore, manifestly clear that the defendant converted the money for PDP campaign activities and I find him guilty and is hereby convicted accordingly,” the judge declared.
On count three which relates to concealment of funds, Justice Abang said the e-payment mandate showed that the money was released for security services but was concealed and used for PDP campaign activities and personal use.
“I hereby find him guilty and convicted on count 3,” he ruled.
ALSO READ: Group blasts APC, demands Supreme Court to uphold judgment on Zamfara
The trial judge also delivered judgment on count 4 which was the allegation of illegal disbursement of funds.
He said the Prosecution placed credible evidence before the court which showed some of the unlawful acts of Colonel Sambo Dasuki as the NSA while in office.
Justice Abang held, “The first defendant was desirous of repositioning the PDP and he deployed the funds for that purpose and personal use.”
He noted that the meeting wherein former President Jonathan allegedly authorised the payment was tagged a ‘security meeting’.
The judge, however, wondered why only the former NSA and top officials of the PDP attended the meeting, yet Metuh claimed the money was disbursed for special national assignment, stressing that the first defendant was not a witness of truth.
He said: “I agree with the prosecution that Metuh’s claims are tissues of lies hurriedly put in place to divert the attention of the court from prying into the disbursement of the N400 million received from the office of the NSA through an under the table agreement.
“It is a case of public funds filtering into private hands for selfish reasons.”
Justice Abang, therefore, held that the N400 million was never released for a special national assignment based on the evidence before him.
“Therefore, I find the first and second defendants guilty on count 4,” he ruled.
He then proceeded to deliver judgement on count 7 – transfer of funds to a PDP chieftain, saying he would come back to counts 5 and 6.
On the seventh count of the charges, the presiding Judge held that the transfer of N27.7 million to late chief Anthony Anenih for a special national assignment directly represented the illicit nature of the fund.
“I have again considered the position of the prosecution and found that the prosecution proved the transfer of N27.7 million to Chief Anthony Anenih, and I hereby find the first and second defendants guilty on count 7 and are hereby convicted,” he ruled.

			
			PV: 
			0