Caption: Deputy Governor of Delta State, , Barr. Deacon Kinsley Otuaro, presenting the staff of Office to the new Diokpa of Umute Kindom, His Royal Majesty, Okpala-Uku Oseyenim Fidelis Chukwuji 
        
 




The Governor of Delta state, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has charged the new Diokpa of Umute Kindom, His Royal Majesty, Okpala-Uku Oseyenim Fidelis Chukwuji to discharge his royal responsibilities in a transparent manner by being fair and just.
He gave the charge at the official presentation of staff of office to the new monarch in Aniocha South Local Government Area of the state on Thursday 6th of February, 2020.
The Governor who was represented by his deputy, Barr. Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, said the monarch who is the custodian of the traditions and customs of the people, must not, in words or actions, give any cause for his subjects to doubt his ability to uphold the sanctity of their customs.
“I sincerely appeal to you to imbibe the democratic virtues of dialogue and consultation in all your dealings with the people,” he added.
Governor Okowa who described Umute community as well known town for its abundant agricultural production, called on sons and daughters of Umute, to take advantage of the various programmes of government in the state to improve on their production capacities.
He commended the people of the community for the peaceful processes leading to the emergence of the new monarch. “It is a good example that every community should emulate. I have no doubt that the institution of the Diopka has great significance for the people of Umute and such, you will all strive to promote the integrity of the stool by according his Royal Majesty the respect he truly deserves,” he said.
ALSO READ: Top Foreign scouts to grace 2020 Ughelli Preseason Football Tournament
In his own remark, Chairmna, Aniocha South Local Government, Hon. Isaac Anwuzia, commended the governor for his support over the years to the community and local government area, noting that the presentation of staff of office to the new monarch marked a new chapter in the socio-economic development of the community.
“I wish to use this medium to inform His Excellency that the journey to this presentation of staff of office being witnessed today, was as a result of the practice of gerontocracy. Being the oldest man in the community, Diokpa fidelis Chukwuji Oseyenim automically becomes the traditional ruler. It is worthy to emphasize that the process that led to his emergence,”
Hon. Anwuzia charged the new ruler to rule his community with all fairness and also used his good office and influence to bring development to the community.
Speaking on behalf of the community, Chairman, Umute Development Committee, Alex Ifeanyi Okolo, assured the governor of the community’s continued loyalty and total support to the ideals of good governance, peace and security of life and property which are the hallmark of his administration.
He also called on the governor to assist the kingdom in the extension of the road which linked the community with Nsukwa community as well as other developmental projects in the community.



			
			PV: 
			0