Following the loss the APC once again sustained in Bayelsa, after winning the guber election, party chairman Adams Oshiomhole has been taking hits from across the party.
And this seems like the beginning as Babachir Lawal, former Secretary to the Government to the Federation, SGF, joined the crowd of critics calling for Oshiomhole’s resignation.
A group earlier on Monday protested at the party’s headquarters in Auja, urging President Muhammadu Buhari to fire the chairman.
His own grouse is, however, different. Just that he seized the opportunity to also pull down the party chairman.
Lawal said the All Progressives Congress, APC, has become a “funny organization” under the leadership of Oshiomhole.
Addressing journalists in Abuja over the weekend, the former SGF said the Northwest and the Northeast have lost their privileges in APC after Lawal Shaibu and Inuwa Abdulkadir who are the national Vice-Chairmen of the party were suspended.
“This APC is funny, as we speak, the chairman and his loyalists have suspended the deputy national chairman (north), the whole north, the chairman, national vice-chairman (north-west) which is the largest geographical zone with seven states has been suspended, he is no longer attending national working committee meetings,’ he said
“The national secretary of the party who is from the north, from Yobe, has left to become governor of Yobe state as we speak, there is no firm decision to his replacement.
“For more than one year or so. A very substantial part of the country is not represented in the decision making.”
The SGF stated that the APC National Chairman no longer carry members of the party along when it comes to decision making.
“I’m quite close to members of the NWC, they always complain about not being carried along so the chairman of a party is not an executive president where whatever you say is, you need to carry everyone along.
“That is the essence, a national vice-chairman north-east for example, he is for north-east and there are things unique to the area which he is aware of, which his own exco has brought to him for processing at the national secretariat. If he does not get the proper hearing and opportunity to present those things they are disenfranchised,” Lawal said.

			
			PV: 
			0