How will Champions League fixture play out tonight?

Here’s Ediale’s (the Oracle) prediction for the first leg and everything else you need to know about the game

Premier League reigning champions Manchester City face 13-time European champions Real Madrid tonight in one of the heavyweight contests of the Champions League round of 16.

These two teams last met in the Champions League semi-final back in May 2016, where Real advanced to the final after a 1-0 aggregate win, courtesy of a Fernando own goal.

The pressure for City to do well in the Champions League this season has increased in recent days after it was announced that they are set to face a ban from the competition for the next two years.

And this is why the oracle is favoring Man City to win or pick a valuable point from tonight’s game. But that’s not the only reason. Madrid will also have an eye on La Liga. They will be having an El Clasico clash with arch rival Barcelona. With Barca coming to the party as League leaders. Madrid will surely be distracted by that game tonight.

Putting all energy in tonight’s game will see them lose to Barca. So it’s a dicey one for Madrid.

Also, City come into the game on the back of an impressive 1-0 win away to Leicester after Gabriel Jesus’ late winner, while Real were stunned in a 1-0 defeat against Levante at the weekend.

Team news

Raheem Sterling is expected to be available for selection, while Leroy Sane, who damaged his anterior cruciate ligament in City’s Community Shield win over Liverpool is unlikely to be risked.

Belgian star Eden Hazard will be unavailable after fracturing his ankle for the second time in Madrid career at the weekend. Marco Asensio is still recovering from a serious knee injury which he suffered during pre-season, whilst Gareth Bale is likely to feature after missing the Levante game through illness.

Predicted line-ups

Real Madrid: Courtois; Carvajal, Varane, Ramos, Marcelo; Casemiro, Kroos, Modrid; Isco, Bale, Benzema. (4-3-3).

Manchester City: Ederson, Walker, Fernandinho, Laporte, Mendy; Rodri, Gundogan, De Bruyne; B.Silva, Sterling, Aguero. (4-3-3).

Prediction?

Real Madrid 1-2 Manchester City. Although Real always seem to find a way in Europe this will be hard nut for them to crack.


			
			PV: 
			0