The Lagos State Government has intensified drainage clearing and dredging towards preventing the perennial flooding during the rainy season across the state. This is about the first time the Lagos State Government is taking such pro-active action on flood control in the state over the years.
An inspection team at the weekend visited sites of ongoing drainage clearance and dredging projects for on-the-spot assessment of work done.
The team, led by the Special Adviser on Drainage Services, Engr. Joe Igbokwe, which include the Permanent Secretary, Drainage Services, Engr. Lekan Shodeinde, visited canals and drainages under systems 6c, 5 and 4, which comprise of LUTH/Itire/Daniyan in system 6c; Babs Animashaun in system 5 and Alaka/Iponrin/Tejuoso to Gbagada Bariga, Anthony Oke, Alo and Apelehin Buxton Cole in system 4.
Joe Igbokwe in a media interaction after the inspection, said that in preparation for the rains, the government is paying desired attention to the clearing of drainage channels in the State. He added that the tour became necessary in order to ascertain the level of work done by the contractors assigned to dredge and clear some of the canals towards resolving flooding issues.
ALSO READ: Remo Stars FC Player faced untimely death in the hands of SARS Officers
Igbokwe assured Lagos residents that with the early commencement of the clearing of major drainage, manholes and canals, when the rains commence, it will flow into its natural channels.
Igbokwe acknowledged said that the ultimate goal of clearing and dredging of the drainage channels and canals is to allow easy passage of rainstorm water. He ordered residents who erected fences obstructing passage/movement of machinery that would ensure the clearing of silts at System 6c in Itire to remove them immediately or have them demolished.
The Permanent Secretary, Engr. Lekan Shodeinde, stated that it is regrettable that many of the channels that have been cleaned before are being filled again with refuse by some residents. He emphasised the need for a change of attitude by the people, warning that the continuous dumping of refuse in the canals and drains will come back to haunt them if they do not desist.

			
			PV: 
			0