Manchester United have commenced with the total overhaul of their squad under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as they are determined to rebuild a formidable team that will restore their glory days.
National Daily gathered that the Old Trafford club is expected to complete the transfers of arguably best English midfielders in Jack Grealish and James Maddison from Aston Villa and Leicester City respectively this summer.
United have already lined the transfer for Maddison and Grealish
The above report has already left some frenzy feelings at Old Trafford.
Meanwhile, the report of the English talisman in Jadon Sancho favouring a transfer to United ahead of Real Madrid and Chelsea will no doubt set fans at Old Trafford into a wild jubilation.
A transfer of Jadon Sancho to the Old Trafford will definitely fortify United’s attack
The success of the above transfers will definitely facilitate the rebuilding of Manchester United into a long desired formidable team.
Jadon Sancho is ready to snub other big European offers to move to Manchester United National Daily learnt from the report by Mirror Sport.
ALSO READ: 10 Footballers who set records that Messi and Ronaldo will never break
The report further revealed that Borussia Dortmund are preparing to sell Sancho for £120m this summer with top European clubs queuing for his signature.
Meanwhile, the England star Sancho is keen on a return to the Premier League and he fancies a move to Old Trafford with United now firm favourites to sign the 19-year-old.
United would make Sancho one of their top earners with a huge £200,000-a-week plus contract.
They also regard him as a big-name signing who could be the club’s new poster boy.
Sancho graduated from Manchester City’s academy, before leaving the Etihad in 2017 at the age of 17, moving to the Westfalenstadion in search of first-team football.
He has now established himself in Gareth Southgate’s England set-up after becoming one of the best young talents in Europe while at Dortmund.
Sancho has already scored 12 goals in 19 Bundesliga matches, while also adding another 13 assists this year.
Meanwhile, Chelsea have been watching developments closely but it is United who now believe they are in pole position as they have already made inroads into trying to get the deal done.
 




			
			PV: 
			0