In spite of the advent of 4G network in the country, the speed of internet has remained very slow, a recent survey conducted by Network monitoring outfit, Opensignal, has revealed.
The 4G is the fourth generation of wireless mobile telecommunications technology, succeeding 3G. Potential and current applications include amended mobile web access, IP telephony, gaming services, high-definition mobile TV, video conferencing, and 3D television.
However, years down the line, Nigeria is still faced with poor internet quality. In a recent survey conducted on 4G services in 77 countries including Nigeria, Network monitoring outfit, Opensignal concluded that congestion is messing with the 4G user experience. Nigeria ranked 75 out of 77 of the countries surveyed in terms of its 4G speed.
According to Opensignal, the 4G networks enjoyed today are light-years from the 3G that kicked off the mobile data revolution at the turn of the millennium, but the networks have their faults. The biggest among them are inconsistency and congestion.
ALSO READ: Investors now sideline Nigeria for Ghana, says report
While GSM companies continue to jostle for market share, it has often come at the expense of poor service and lack of accountability. Quite frankly, as an average internet user in Nigeria, one is usually left at the mercy of poor mobile internet services which frustrates one to seek limited alternatives.
Nigeria’s internet download speed remains among the slowest in the world, and while the telcos continue to rake in heavy gains from data sales, consumers continue to groan for lack of fast and affordable internet services.
According to an MTN user, “Since I upgraded to 4G, the network seems faster, but it sometimes still frustrates me. My expectation on MTN 4G is not close to being met. Also, it is a known fact that the data bundle burns faster.”
To an Airtel user, “Airtel data network is relatively stable, and I am enjoying it. Although it still depends on the location, I move to some places and it’s difficult to check my mail. More so, it looks like Airtel is competing with MTN on whose data burns out faster.”
According to a Glo user, “I use 4G on Glo, and it is occasional fast and slow at the same time. The only thing I enjoy is that the data is cheap.”

			
			PV: 
			0