In continuation of its operations against armed banditry and all other forms of criminality in Zamfara state, troops of Operation Hadari Daji (OPHD) have continued to record significant successes against the criminal elements.
In statement released by the Acting Force Information Officer for OPHD, Ayobami Oni-Orisan, between 10 and 20 February 2020, OPHD troops conducted clearance operations, ambushes and fighting patrols in several locations across the state.
The operations resulted in the interception of a large ammunitions cache of 4,630 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition around Moriki town in Shinkafi, neutralization of 13 bandits with several others fatally wounded, arrest of 8 suspected bandits (including a female) and the recovery of the Seven AK 47 rifles,  eight loaded magazines, 22 Motorcycles, two Dane guns, four GSM phones and 30 jerry cans of Premium Motor Spirit, among many others.
OPHD troops also intercepted suspected drug counterfeiters and drug dealers with 350 cartons of fake “PECOL” drugs and a sizeable consignment of suspected Indian hemp in Zurmi and Shinkafi Local Government Areas of Zamfara state respectively.
The fake “PECOL” drugs which were being smuggled from Niger Republic through Jibia, were carefully concealed behind bags of fresh pepper in a J5 Bus with registration number RMY 156 XA Katsina to avoid any suspicion.
ALSO READ: Operation Lafiya Dole: Army brags about achievement
However, careful scrutiny of the vehicle by the troops led to the discovery of the fake drugs. Troops deployed in Shinkafi Local Government also intercepted another vehicle conveying a suspected drug dealer with a large quantity of Indian hemp carefully concealed inside a carton.
Presently, all the suspects and exhibits have duly been handed over to the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) respectively for further prosecution and destruction of the drugs.
It is to be noted that the ongoing operation against banditry and all forms of criminality will continue until peace is restored in Zamfara, Katsina, Kebbi and Sokoto states.
Troops of OPHD remain highly motivated, determined, disciplined and professional in executing this mission in line with extant Rules Of Engagement (ROE) and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the Armed Forces of Nigeria.
Consequently, the Force Commander (FC) OPHD and Acting General Officer Commanding (GOC) 8 Division, Nigerian Army, Brigadier-General Aminu Bande duly uses this medium to reassure the good and peace-loving people of Zamfara and all other neighboring states of their safety.
He equally encourages them to support the operation by providing timely and credible information to OPHD troops through the dedicated emergency telephone numbers, earlier provided to the general public, to ensure prompt and efficient action. The FC also warns all recalcitrant bandits and their cohorts to immediately lay down their arms and embrace the on-going peace process or face full military action.


			
			PV: 
			0