There was rising disquiets across Nigeria when Senator Geidam Ibrahim at the Thursday legislative session of the Senate presented a controversial bill for establishment of a national agency for rehabilitation of repentant Boko Haram terrorists and other groups.
The National Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De-radicalization and Integration of repentant insurgents in Nigeria (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 340) was introduced in the Senate by Senator Gaidam Ibrahim. It has emerged the most controversial bill presented in the Upper Chamber for legislation at the Thursday senate plenary.
National Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De-radicalization and Integration of repentant insurgents in Nigeria (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 340) was read the First Time.
Thereafter, there were no further actions on the bill after the First Reading till the next sitting of the Senate.
The New Media Unit, Office of the President of the Senate, in a statement on the “Proceedings of the Nigerian Senate on Thursday, indicated that on the return of senators to a new Legislative Day in the Senate, the  Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, led the Principal Officers into the Chamber; took the official prayers; and began the day’s proceedings at 10.49am.
‪Senator Ibikunle Amosun had earlier ‪moved a motion for the approval of votes and proceedings of Wednesday plenary. Senator Stella Oduah seconded the motion.
ALSO READ: Why Boko Haram is still keeping Leah Sharibu
Presentation of bills was highlighted in accordance to the order of proceedings of legislative activities on Thursday. It was indicated that First Reading include:
1. 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (Alteration) Bill, 2020 (SB. 321) by Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege.
1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (Alteration) Bill, 2020 (SB. 321) was read the First Time.
2. Federal Polytechnic Maiduguri (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 338) by Senator Kashim Shettima.
Federal Polytechnic Maiduguri (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 338) was read the First Time.
3. National Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De-radicalization and Integration of repentant insurgents in Nigeria (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 340) by Senator Gaidam Ibrahim.
National Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De-radicalization and Integration of repentant insurgents in Nigeria (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 340) was read the First Time.
4. 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (Alteration) Bill, 2020 (SB. 274) by Senator Solomon Adeola.
1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (Alteration) Bill, 2020 (SB. 274) was read the First Time.
5. Metallurgy Training Institute Orumba (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 338) by Senator Ifeanyi Ubah.
Metallurgy Training Institute Orumba (Est, etc) Bill, 2020 (SB. 338) was read the First Time.
The bill presented by Senator Geidam Ibrahim precipitated immediate uproar across the country even before the end of the senate plenary. Many stakeholders in the Nigerian construed the proposed bill as new form of rewarding and reinforcing the terrorists after previous rewarding processes which included releasing of ‘repentant’ Boko Haram terrorists, the establishment of the North East Development Commission, ransom payment for release of victims of kidnapping, among others.
The public outcry became germane in view of imprecise and seeming indecisive actions by the Buhari administration end terrorism in the northeast, and an extension of hypothetical ‘sympathy’ for the insurgents and bandits in the northwest Nigeria.
The bill was roundly condemned on arguments that it deviates from genuine means of tackling violent crimes in northern Nigeria and other parts of the country. The bill has become highly unpopular from its introduction.
Further reports later.

			
			PV: 
			0