The governor-elect of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, David Lyon, may have mocked the gods of the land into provocation unto his political misfortune in Bayelsa State. Lyon might have tested the anger of the gods with his mock inauguration when he embarked on rehearsal on Thursday 24 hours to his swearing in scheduled for Friday, February 14, 2020.
The unusual ceremony was circumvented by unexpected judgement of the Supreme Court two hours later. While Lyon undermined the gods at a crucial moment the Supreme Court was sitting and preparing to deliver judgement on the Bayelsa governorship election, the gods may have been listening to other consultations and, therefore, abandoned Lyon for abandoning them.
Like some stakeholders adherent to spiritism remarked, “David Lyon saw the Promised Land but unable to step into it…” He was declared “a victim of near success…”; perhaps, after provocation of the gods.
The unusual rehearsal which perhaps precipitated unexpected judgement was unprecedented, and probably portrayed desperation and self-condemnation. It would appear that Lyon saw what other stakeholders did not see; perhaps, did he may get secret spiritual counseling that he will not be in that office; so, he went for an informal preliminary self-inauguration; conducting historical mock swearing in; and provoking the gods of the land into swinging the pendulum of power in Bayelsa State to a mockery court judgement.
The misfortune was so unfortunate that Father Mbaka was nowhere to rescue the APC man. Maybe, Lyon and APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, did not see the imperative to consult Mbaka; while the God did not speak to the reverend father this time.
The Supreme Court in its seeming unpopular judgement annulled the election of Lyon on allegations of questionable information and doubtful credentials submitted to the INEC by the deputy governor elect, Biobarakuma Degi – Eremienyo.
A five-man panel of the Supreme Court led by Justice Mary Peter – Odili on Thursday annulled  the election of Bayelsa State governor – elect , David Lyon; ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission to withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to the All Progressives Congress ’ candidates as the winners of the November 16 , 2019 governorship election in the state; directed INEC to issue fresh certificates to the candidates of the party with the next highest votes and with the required constitutional spread of votes in the results of the election, which made the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidates principal beneficiaries of the controversial judgment.
Justice Ejembi Ekwo read the lead judgment of the Supreme Court.
The apex court upheld the November 12, 2019 judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja which disqualified Degi-Eremienyo in the election for submitting forged certificates to INEC. Apparently, the High Court judge indicated that Lyon went into the election without a running mate as required by the constitution.

			
			PV: 
			0