Edo Queens Football Club of Benin are currently in Makurdi the Benue State Capital for Pre-Season training tour. While in Makurdi, they would be participating in four invitational football tournament organized by a sports philanthropist Barrister Paul Edeh in conjunction with the Benue State Ministry of Youths and Sports,National Daily learnt.
A total of Eight female teams where invited for the competition, but only four team came for the tournament. The teams are Edo Queens FC Badger Queens FC of Kaduna, Nasarawa Amazon FC and Naija Ratels FC of Makurdi.
Addressing participants at the Government House, Benue State Commissioner for Youths and Sports Hon
Mrs. Ladi Ajene Isegbe, commended teams for honouring the invitation. She said that she never expected teams like Edo and Nasarawa to come because of the native reports about insecurity in the state. She added that all logistics have been put in place for a hitch free tournament.
“I personally want to welcome you all on behalf of our amiable governor His Excellency Dr. Samuel Ortom for coming to Benue State for your training tour. Going by the negative report of insecurity in this State, nobody would like to come to Benue State, but today I’m happy the issue of insecurity in our state is a thing of the past.
ALSO READ: Ronaldo’s millions of fake instagram followers exposed
It is very unfortunate that the governor is out of the state he would have personally love to come and watch these games, but I promise you that I will deliver a comprehensive reports of this event to him. So i wish all the participating teams the best of luck.”
The tournament Will kick -off this afternoon with  Badger Queens Fc of Kaduna taking on Naija Ratels fc, while Edo Queens Fc will battle with Nasarawa Amazon. The competition is part of preparations for NWFL players building up for the new season.
At the end of the tournament, trophy and medals will be given out to teams that distinguished themselves.
Meanwhile, Benue Football fans have tip Edo Queens and Nasarawa Amazons  for gold.

			
			PV: 
			0