With the number of internet subscribers in the country standing at 122,489,257 as of November, 2019, 9mobile is keen on winning more subscribers to its side with its packages for less amount spend.
The network also recently reviewed its data packages to offer the best value across the industry in terms of both data volume and price.
For weekly data subscription, Airtel and MTN appear to offer the most options; however, 9mobile and Glo lead the pack as they offer more value for less spend. This is another benefit that 9mobile provides to its customers – ‘more value for less spend.’
9mobile also wins the league for daily plans as it offers more value for less spend, especially as it offers more validity period for data usage.
9mobile subscribers can enjoy a 2GB subscription for 3-days where other network providers offer the same for two days or even lesser in the case of Airtel.
9mobile also provides two options for its 1GB daily subscription, which can either be N300 for the entire day or N200 for the whole night, which, when compared to other network providers, is a lot more affordable.
Additionally, 9mobile offers not just the best value for data subscription, but also an effective and efficient network to satisfy the needs of its millions of users, thanks to its high-speed internet connectivity.
To further enhance the experience of its subscribers, 9mobile is continuously investing in upgrading its network capacity.
 
The network provider currently offers the fastest broadband network yet in the 4G-LTE space in Nigeria, which allows for swift and efficient browsing experience. Beyond voice and data, the telco offers a diverse range of services, including digital media services, hosting services, unified communications, enterprise solutions, and a whole lot more to expand value options available to all categories of customers.
Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Ltd. (EMTS), trading as ‘9mobile, is a Nigerian private limited liability company. EMTS acquired a Unified Access Service License from the Nigerian Communications Commission in 2007.
The License enables EMTS to provide Fixed Telephony (wired or wireless), Digital Mobile Services, International Gateway Services, and National/Regional Long Distance Services in addition to spectrum assignments in the 900 and 1800 MHz bands.









			
			PV: 
			0