Manchester United supporters have endured some undesirable moments under four different managers since post Sir Alex Ferguson era almost seven years ago.
Many have remained divided over the capability of the current United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to return the Old Trafford club to its glory days.
Uninterestingly, the Red Devils have registered a woeful statistics so far this season with a disastrous eight defeats so far out of with 50% defeat before their fans at Old Trafford. Similarly, United fans have endured seven draws from their players so far this season with 60% before them at Old Trafford.
United have registered an abysmal statistics so far this season
The above statistics obviously is what every Red Devils fan did not envisaged at the start of the season and such can easily sum up United as a failure so far this season.
Expectedly, the ugly development has left many to continually question capability of Solskjaer in restoring the Old Trafford club to the apex with fervent calls for a world class coach to tinker United’s affairs.
Many renowned football managers with the likes of Massimiliano Allegri and Mauricio Pochettino were recently touted to take over from Solskjaer, but the Norwegian has somehow gained the support of the Ed Woodward and remained at Old Trafford.
Allegri was previously tipped to take United’s managerial job
Meanwhile, there could be a change in the managerial status at the Old Trafford next summer as report reaching National Daily reveals that Mauricio Pochettino hasn’t given up hope of being Manchester United manager next season.
The former Spurs boss, still out of the game after being sacked by chairman Daniel Levy almost three months ago, is still hovering on United’s radar.
However, the Argentine dream of managing the Red Devils can become a reality if United if the Old Trafford club has another shocking end to the season and finish outside the top six.
Pochettino could possibly become United manager next summer
With no top level European football this season and United currently eight in the Premier League six points off fourth placed Chelsea, the club’s American owners are concerned about falling revenues.
National Daily gathered that major backers like Adidas and shirt sponsor Chevrolet are believed to have Champions League clauses built into their contracts which reduce United’s money if they don’t make top four.
And with the prospect of a second season without the Champions League United’s owners are getting twitchy – and haven’t ruled out moving for Pochettino who has been in Spain and his native Argentina since leaving Tottenham .
Pochettino has told friends he’s re-charging his batteries and wants to resume his managerial career in the summer – preferably in the Premier League.
The 47-year-old South American is prepared to be patient – but is understood to be excited by the prospect of managing United at some stage.
 

			
			PV: 
			0