The Minister of state for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, on Sunday apologized to President Muhammadu Buhari over the certificate scandal that cost the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) the victory in the November 16, 2019, governorship election in Bayelsa State. Sylva, a former Governor of Bayelsa State, acknowledged the disappointment of the president and his wife, whom he said were prepared to attend the swearing in of the APC governor in Bayelsa State.
The Minister in a statement appealed to indigenes of Bayelsa State to shun all acts of violence and lawlessness. He emphasized the need for restraint at all times, noting that though the events of the last few days were as provocative as they were regrettable. Sylva urged the people to resist the temptation to take laws into their hands in the interest of the state and the political stability of the country.
He assured that the mandate will be restored, expressed confidence on the legal team the APC leadership has assembled.
The statement reads:
PRESS STATEMENT BY HIS EXCELLENCY CHIEF TIMIPRE SYLVA CALLING FOR CALM AND HOPE IN BAYELSA STATE.
I want to use this moment to call on all the people of our dear state, Bayelsa, to kindly shun all acts of violence and lawlessness.
Also of great importance to me is to extend my profound apology to our President, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, over the avoidable disruption to his busy schedule which was caused by the events of the moment.
I am aware that Mr. President and his lovely wife Her Excellency Aisha Buhari had concluded arrangements to travel to Bayelsa to witness the inauguration of the APC Governorship candidate as Governor of Bayelsa State. I therefore extend my apology to Mr. President and members of his entourage.
ALSO READ: Lalong to begin implementation of livestock, ranching 
To the good people of Bayelsa state, I would like to emphasize the need for restraint at all times. No doubt, the events of the last few days are as provocative as they are regrettable. But however, tempting it might be for anyone to take the law into their hands, such temptation must be resisted in the greater interest of our state and the political stability of the country at large.
The leadership of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has directed its team of legal experts to study the situation critically and proffer legal options available to the party accordingly. We should, therefore, all remain faithful to, and have confidence in, the wisdom and ability of the party leadership to provide direction at this very sensitive time.
Once again, I call on all people of Bayelsa State irrespective of whatever differences there may be, to eschew violence and respect the security measures put in place by appropriate authorities. Let me conclude by assuring Mr. President and our party hierarchy that despite this temporary setback, APC in Bayelsa remains strong and its members resolute in our support for the ideals of a greater and prosperous Nigeria as envisioned by our President, His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari.
The mandate will be restored and that dream of a better, greater Bayelsa State will be actualized
Thank you and God bless Bayelsa State and the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Signed:
His Excellency Chief Timipre Sylva
Former Governor of Bayelsa State and Minister of State For Petroleum Resources
16 February 2020

			
			PV: 
			0