As he could no longer bear the pains, bitterness and anger of having his daughter married out without his full consent, despite ‘all he did for her’, veteran actress, Ngozi Ezeonu’s husband, Edwin Ezeonu is spitting more fire and has even gone as far as laying a curse on his daughter.

Well, in case you missed it.

The controversy started two weeks ago, when Ngozi Ezeonu gave out her daughter’s hand in marriage at a glamorous ceremony held in Asaba, Delta State.

During the star-studded event, it was noticed that her estranged husband, Mr. Edwin Ezeonu wasn’t present to officially hand over his daughter’s hand to the groom.

The aggrieved father, is insisting that as long as he is concerned, his daughter Ogechukwu Edwina Ezeonu is still unmarried and that marriage is cursed.

ALSO READ: Dj Therapy re-writes Bariga’s scripts, lauds Abiru, Bariga Chair 

Mr. Ezeonu also emphasized that he is native of Nnobi while his estranged wife, Ngozi is from Ogbunike, both in Anambra State, yet his daughter’s traditional marriage was held in Delta State, an act seen as abomination in his community.

“This woman, Ngozi Denis Ikpelue has no legitimate right and authority to give out Ogechukwu Edwina Ezeonu’s hand in marriage. I call her by her father’s name because we are divorced and she no longer has the right to bear my name since 2013.

However, as long as I and the entire family of Ezeonu and his kindred are concerned, Ogechukwu Edwina Ezeonu is not married. That union is cursed. It is a taboo!

I hear people saying, I abandoned my children. I never did. I took care of my children, I visited Ogechukwu in school, even when she was in boarding school, I do sneak in to give her money, extra food stuffs. She has sweet tooth, so I made sure I satisfy her needs in school. I paid their school fees, supplied them food stuffs. I made sure I sent money into Ngozi’s account monthly. The least I sent to her is N400,000. When it became glaring to me that Ngozi was mean on taking the children away, I reduced my financial assistance. But I still kept in touch,” he stated.

“Ngozi should also desist from using my surname. We are divorced,” he lamented.


			
			PV: 
			0