Obaseki denies involvement

Protesting youths chanting anti-Oshiomhole songs on Saturday booed the convoy of the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in Benin, Edo state.
National Daily gathered that the timely intervention of the Police prevented the youths from coming near the vehicle conveying Oshiomhole who was in Benin to attend the burial ceremony of the mother of a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ehiozuwa Agbonyinma, late Madam Cecilia Agbonyinma.
Some APC chieftains who refused to be named accused Governor Godwin Obaseki for the activities of the youths. The chieftains said it was wrong for Obaseki to always mobilise thugs to harass Oshiomhole
A top Edo government official who pleaded anonymity denied involvement of Obaseki in the airport incident.
According to the official, “Oshiomhole should leave Obaseki out of his predicament. If Oshiomhole go to Port Harcourt or Bayelsa, you know the reception he will receive.
“Didn’t you see protest against him in Abuja? Was that also Obaseki? Oshiomhole has general dislike across the country. Oshiomhole’s travail is self-inflicted.”
Meanwhile, Governor Godwin Obaseki has denied sending youths to boo Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.
Obaseki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the Edo State Government had no connection with the crowd that was reported to have booed Comrade Oshiomhole.
According to him, “It has come to our notice that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole arrived Benin today and was booed by a crowd of people. We are not directly or remotely involved in the act. We condemn insinuations that the Edo State Government is in any way involved in such an act.
“The series of anti-Oshiomhole protests across the country in the last couple of days, including those who jeered and booed Comrade Oshiomhole in Benin City, on Saturday have nothing to do with the government in Edo State. Oshiomhole, just like any other law-abiding person is welcome into the state as long as he does not engage in any activity capable of disrupting peace and safety.
“We categorically state that we are not in whatever guise involved with those who engaged in the act against the former governor.”
Osagie stressed that the state government would continue to maintain law and order, adding that the government was committed to protecting the rights of all law-abiding citizens in the state.











			
			PV: 
			0