The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Saturday in Lagos, pledged that his government would continue to support the Nigerian Army activities to fight the enemy of the state.
Particularly, he expressed gratitude to the 9 Brigade, Nigerian Army proactiveness at tackling the demonic activities of herdsmen, kidnappers, bandits, terrorists armed robbers and others organised crimes in its area of responsibility.
The Governor who was represented at the 2019 West Africa Social Activities (WASA) at 9 Brigade Parade Ground, Ikeja Cantonment on Saturday by the Commissioner of Special Duties, Engineer Tayo Gbamgbose Martins averred that we can only deal with the enemies of the state when we are united.
“We are very happy with the Nigerian Army the way they have assisted in security. We must aldo commend the force for been able to keep this age-long tradition which helps to promote family values and national integration.”
In his welcome remarks, the Commander, 9 Brigade, Brig Gen Musa Etsu-Ndagi noted that WASA, apart from assisting officers, soldiers and their family members the opportunity to interact in a relaxed atmosphere, it also helps to deepen our camaraderine; our unity in diversity and able to confront the enemies of the state.
“Based on this, we invited cultural troupes from various rich cultural backgrounds in Nigeria to make the event lively.
“I want to appreciate all and sundry for their support when we hosted Exercise Crocodile Smile IV in 2019 which was very successful. I appreciate all the sister services for their synergy and cooperation.”
While expressing his joy with the activities of WASA, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Hakeem Odumosu observed that over the years, the army and the police have maintained a symbotic relationship and have worked together in unity, and this has made security a watertight in Lagos State.
“This is a social interaction outside our normal uniform and it makes us more united, accepting and understanding one other’s culture, and this makes us more healthy.”
A representative of the General Officer Commanding, 81 Division, Brig Gen John Edet reiterated that the West Africa Social Activities promotes civil-military relations and cooperation among troops.
The events which had all kinds of dramatic trappings was well spiced with cultural dances from Nupe, Ibo, Yoruba and a display of foods and delicacies common to our ethnic identities in the barracks.
The highpoint of the evening celebration of cultural heritage was a Tug of War between members of Nigerian Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and some female soldiers of 9 Brigade. The keenly contested match was won by the soldiers after three sets of round.
The theme for the 2019 WASA: “Enhencing Unity amongst troops through cultural display and social interaction” was rounded off with a burnfire and a ceremonial beat a retreat by Nigerian Army band corps.

			
			PV: 
			0