Highly spirited United fans awaiting Fernandes arrival to Old Traffor
        
 


The fact that United are occupying the 8th position on the log of 2019/2020 English Premier League table is a cruel reality that stares on the once victorious faces of the Red Devils fans.
The Old Trafford club sadly lost their glory days with the departure of Sir Alex Ferguson in May, 2013 with United falling short of conquering the EPL with the sad occasion.
United have seemingly  lost their glory days with post Ferguson era
However, futile efforts have been made in the recent past to restore the glory days to Old Trafford who seem to have been overshadowed by their once touted “noisy neighbours” in Man City.
These fruitless efforts have seen United endured some difficult moments under four different managers since post Ferguson’s reign. The Red Devils fans have patiently waited for the moment to see their once fierce club that conquered both domestically and in Europe regain their prowess.
Meanwhile, so many factors may be attributed to United challenges ranging from poor decision making in the transfer markets which have culminated in poor quality in the dressing room to partially committed players.
The latter of course can be seen in Paul Pogba who many pundits believe to be United’s best quality player ironically.
Sadly, the effect of the Frenchman has been perceived by many in a negative sense. No credit to the issue that existed between Jose Mourinho and Pogba during the reign of the former as United manager. Pogba was criticized then for his partial commitment to the club’s quest for glory.
Pogba’s erratic commitment has remained a concern for United supporters
It is not strange to see many still criticize Pogba for his lack of commitment even after the exit of Mourinho especially when he went ahead to publicly discuss his desire for new challenges away from United while addressing reporters in Tokyo last year during his promotional visit.
ALSO READ: Why Man City, Chelsea, other games were called off
“I have been three years in Manchester and have been doing great – some good moments and some bad moments, like everybody, like everywhere else.
“After this season and everything that happened this season, with my season being my best season, as well . . . I think for me it could be a good time to have a new challenge somewhere else. I am thinking of this: to have a new challenge somewhere else.”
Similarly, the recent controversial comments from the Frenchman’s agent Mino Raiola on New Year’s eve definitely did not sit well with many United supporters who rather felt insulted by the Italian.
“Pogba’s problem is Manchester: it is a club out of touch with reality, without a sporting project,”
“Today I wouldn’t bring anyone else there, they would ruin even [Diego] Maradona, Pele and [Paolo] Maldini. Paul needs a team and a society, one like at Juve before.”
Interestingly, United seem to be finally heading the right direction with their reported interest in Aston Villa captain Jack Grealish who is rumoured to have reportedly already agreed provisional terms with Manchester United over a summer move to Old Trafford.
Grealish hunger for success will suit United quest for glory
Reports reaching National Daily from Goal reveal that Grealish has already approved the outline of a deal to join United in the summer.
The report though says that no formal talks between United and Villa have yet taken place, but that Grealish has been house-hunting in anticipation of the move.
Meanwhile, the arrival of the 24-year-old Englishman will definitely pave way for a smooth exit of Paul Pogba as many United fans are gradually growing weary of his undesirable antics.
United appear likely to lose Paul Pogba this summer, and Grealish – who has scored seven Premier League goals this season as well as recording five assists – would fill the void left by the Frenchman National Daily further learnt.
Manchester United need players who can guarantee 100% commitment and hunger for success and the 24-year-old, who is almost certain to be called up by England boss Gareth Southgate next month ticks that box considering  his inspirational form for Aston Villa on their return to the Premier League.
It will no doubt be an ecstatic moment for many Red Devils supporters to welcome Grealish to Old Trafford at the expense of Pogba who could be viewed as a good riddance to bad rubbish.
.
 
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0