Some aggrieved Higher National Diploma (HND) holders in the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola to probe the alleged promotional disparity rocking the corps.
Investigations gathered from some HND holders in the NSCDC revealed that tongues are presently wagging within the corps on the alleged roles of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Board in the promotion disparity as it affects the HND holders employed into the corps in 2012.
Recall that the Head of Civil Service in Nigeria had earlier pronounced that those that were employed with HND in year 2012 be elevated to be at per with their counterpart who have B. Sc. i.e from Grade level 07 to grade level 08.
A source within the NSCDC revealed that those that were employed in 2012 with both (HND and BSc) wrote confirmation and promotion examination (COMPRO) together as Senior Officers in 2014.
The source disclosed that on September 26th, 2018 the much expected list of elevated officers from grade level 07 to 08 (HND) was released with those already on grade level 08 also promoted to grade level 09 and their promotion back dated to 2015 while that of the HND’s was dated 2016.
ALSO READ: Military creating super camp for self-protection than fight Boko Haram – Hon Jaha
“We wrote the same COMPRO exam on the same day, time and even got our result the same day. Why then on earth should their promotion letter be dated back to 2015 and those with HND (that were elevated to meet up with their colleagues) to 2016.
“Those that were employed in 2016 have their letter of employment back dated to 2015 and have been given automatic promotion ahead of those of in the Inspectorate Cadre (HND 2012), they are now on GL 09 while we still remain on GL 08.
“The elevation process was meant for those with HND to be at per with their counterparts with B.Sc., but with what has been done now; do you think that the disparity no longer exists?
“On Saturday 22nd February, 2020 those with B.Sc. wrote another promotion exams (2019 exams) to be advanced to GL 10 hopefully while those with HND were asked to wait till 2020 promotion exam at a date not yet fixed.”
However, the NSCDC Public Relations Officer, Force headquarters, DCC Emmanuel Okeh, denied the disparity in the organization.
Okey explained that there was nothing like disparity between the HND and B.sc holders in the NSCDC, saying that all HND holders in the NSCDC have being elevated to level 8 as directed by the Federal Government.





			
			PV: 
			0