The Lagos Chairman of National Union of Road Transport Worker (NURTW),Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya(AKA MC Oluomo) has raised threatened to deal ruthlessly with drivers reported to have been lives difficult for commuters through indiscriminate fare hike,sequel the restriction of motorcycles and tricycles in certain parts of the state.

Akinsanya made this assertion while addressing a media parley at the NURTW’s secretariat in Lagos,stating unequivocally that no directive has  been given for any upward review of fares.

“Our members are hereby informed that the leadership of the Union has not approve or in anyway support any upward review in the cost of transportation from different locations within Lagos.

“There is no price increase and no Commercial driver or member of the NURTW should inflict additional burden on the good people of Lagos by increasing their transport fare.

ALSO READ: Lagos residents lament as Okada, Keke ban bite harder

“Any drivers or union member found to be taking undue advantage of the situation by indiscriminately increasing transport fare will be dealt with.

Akinsanya hinted that,”the leadership of the Union will meet with the state government and appropriate stakeholders to find a workable solution to the OKada menace that necessited the ban in the first place.

He directed all the branch chairmen of the union to monitor and ensure that the commercial drivers do not extort people as a result of the ban of motorcycle and tricycle operations in some parts of the metropolis.

He stated that NURTW in Lagos State has been making a move to resolve the issue with state government and that the union is also working assiduously with investors to inject more buses and increase the number of commercial vehicles in the metropolis to ease the hardship faced as a result of the ban.

Oluomo used the occasion to caution commercial drivers against driving on one way or BRT corridors as anyone found culpable would face the wrath of the law.

“We advise both the commercial drivers and TOAN and MOALS to be patient and cooperate with Lagos State Traffic Management Authority officials, obey traffic lights. It’s an offence to drive on BRT lanes or drive against traffic. Obey the traffic laws and regulations, comport yourself orderly and do not carry passengers at will.”

			
			PV: 
			0