A chieftain of the Yoruba socio-cultural organization, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, says President Muhammudu Buhari is oppressing the masses across the country with his style of leadership.
Adebanjo, while reacting to the face-off between Buhari’s Chief of Staff, CoS, and Babagana Monguno, National Security Adviser, NSA, over the coordination of Nigeria’s security structure, insisted that President Buhari is not in-charge of his government.
Recall that a circular from Monguno’s office which surfaced online last week had accused Kyari of hijacking the coordination of security leadership of Nigeria.
According to the circular, contrary to protocols, Buhari’s CoS convened meetings with heads of defence, security and intelligence agencies with their supervising Ministers in attendance.
However, Adebanjo said the face-off showed a clear sign of incompetence on the part of Buhari.
ALSO READ: Security tension: Buhari convenes emergency meeting with service chiefs, IG
Adebanjo said: “Why does everybody keep doubting that Buhari is in charge. That incident is not the first which shows you that Buhari is completely not in charge. Remember when personnel of the EFCC and intelligence service clashed at the gate of one of them; what happened? When security operatives clashed in front of the National Assembly and the Vice President took action, did Buhari not reverse the action?

“I no longer take any action from this government seriously. People, military Commanders are been killed, and he keeps on claiming to be in charge.”
Recalling when Buhari ordered Ministers to always go through Kyari before seeing him, Adebanjo maintained that Nigerians are aware that he’s not in charge but, “living in self-denial.”
He added: “Everything about his government shows ignorance and incompetence. I’m strongly of the opinion that Buhari is not in charge, all those praising him are just living in self-denial.
“Everybody knows the truth but are afraid to say it. When an elected officer asks Ministers to go through an unelected officer are you telling me he is in charge? Nigerians are tired of him.

			
			PV: 
			0