The Kaduna State government has commenced the prosecution of a suspected fake medical doctor who has been in practice for the past 11 years in the state. Accordingly, the Kaduna State Ministry of Justice arraigned the suspected fake medical doctor, Saidu Ahmed Ya’u, before the Chief Magistrate Court on charges of certificate forgery and impersonation.
The Attorney General of Kaduna State and Commissioner for Justice, Aisha Dikko, in a statement indicated that the accused is being remanded at the Kaduna Correctional Facility until March 16.
The State Attorney General revealed that the First Information Report (FIR) indicated that Saidu had been working as a medical doctor over 11 years as a staff of the Ministry of Health.
The Attorney General said that Governor Nasir El Rufai had ordered the Ministry of Health to investigate Saidu, after receiving a petition alleging that the suspected fake doctor has been working with fake certificates.
The Ministry of Health, therefore, appointed a four-member committee which investigated for verification the certificates and institutions that Saidu claimed to have attended, including verification of his registration with the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN).
The Justice commissioner said findings revealed that Ahmed Ya’u forged the certificates which he presented to the government to secure employment with the state’s Ministry of Health.
ALSO READ: Why Buhari pardoned 104 Boko Haram terrorists
“Information gathered from Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria and MDCN also revealed that Saidu was neither admitted nor graduated from the university and was not registered with the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria,” the Attorney General said.
The Attorney General further narrated that when the FIR was read to the defendant, he claimed that all the charges against him are false and his counsel, thereafter, made a bail application. The application was said to be opposed by the Director of Public Prosecution.
The DPP had noted that the allegations against suspected fake doctor were very weighty, arguing that the exceptional circumstances for admitting such offenders to bail have not been complied with, in line with Section 174 of the Kaduna State Administration of Justice Law 2017.
The Director, therefore, requested for a date for further mention, in order to enable him to conclude investigations on the matter.
The court adjourned the matter to March 16.

			
			PV: 
			0