By Richards Adeniyi



Friday 21st February, 2020 will remain green in the lives of Eight youths who were recently appointed by Dr. Boniface Okechukwu Aniembonam as ‘NAGAFF Ambassadors’ in their various callings who were recognized and selected to be recognized and labelled as such.
Dr. Boniface Aniembonam said that NAGAFF has decided to recognize these youths who are the leaders of tomorrow and has therefore, conferred on them as “NAGAFF Ambassadors” stressing that any society that strives to achieve a good society must recognize some of the youths on the society who are recognized as leaders of tomorrow.
“We in NAGAFF have recognized these youths in their various professions and have decided to confer on them as “NAGAFF Ambassadors” and that they will be assisted financially to excel in their various callings aimed at achieving a good and decent society.
He urged these ambassadors who have now being duly recognized by NAGAFF  to strive to justify the confidence reposed in them as NAGAFF ambassadors and that should these youthful ambassadors fail to sustain these high expectations which are expected of them, NAGAFF will not hesitate to withdraw its recognition from them as NAGAFF Ambassadors.
Some of these youthful ambassadors include Cyril Uzoma Diala – aka MC Cee-Y’ Sunday Bassey alias Big Tanker; Prince Ndubuisi Hnamasonye, M.C Naize and Ollanusi Dinonso-Emmanuel alias General-Cool;  Others include Ikechukwu Ezeagha alia Pupa Iyke and Mohammed Abuduhahi alias A. A.D light.
Expatiating further, Dr. Boniface   Aniembonam said that more than 520 youths have been trained as stakeholders and independent to earn their living in their various callings.
Dr. Boniface  Aniembonam advised these selected youths to have a base and advised them to respect the laws of the land and strive to remain as useful ambassadors of NAGAFF and the nation, promising that they would be assisted in whatever areas they intend to follow to create capacity and earn their living.
The ambassadors were later decorated with NAGAFF logo and welcome into the NAGAFF family.
 



			
			PV: 
			0