The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday raised alarm over what the party considered desperation of the APC to subjugate, intimidate for the purpose of annexing the Supreme Court over Imo, Bayelsa and Zamfara governorship election judgments.
Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary, at a press conference in Abuja on Monday, declared that the PDP wishes to bring to the attention of the world that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is all out to destabilize the nation and destroy the hard-earned democracy. He was of the view that the time has come for all Nigerians to stand in unity to defend the nation and salvage it from political marauders and oppressive elements.
He stated that many are already aware of the desperation by the APC to annex the Supreme Court, subjugate and browbeat the justices and direct judicial determinations to suit their selfish ends.
Ologbondiyan declared: “The public space is already awash with reports of how the APC has been threatening and piling pressure on the justices of the Supreme Court to force a reversal of valid judgments already delivered on the Bayelsa and Zamfara governorship elections, where the party (APC) suffered self-inflicted losses.
“Nigerians know that the APC has been going through a hemorrhage since the Supreme Court delivered valid judgments on Bayelsa and Zamfara and as a result, they are no longer interested in the logic of these judgments.
“They have since thrown caution to the wind to destabilize our nation and destroy our hard-earned democracy especially the judiciary. The APC federal government is leading all forms of battles against the rule of law and constitutionalism.”
ALSO READ: Why Buhari can’t support Tinubu for President in 2023 – Yarima
The PDP, however, held that its sacrifices for the sustenance of democracy, as demonstrated in the party’s patriotic comportment towards the verdicts of the court on the Presidential election as well as Osun, Kano, Katsina and Kaduna governorship elections tribunal, subsist.
The party noted that there is a consensus among majority of Nigerians and even the international community that there was obvious miscarriage of justice by the Supreme Court panel on the Imo State governorship election, for which the PDP accordingly reverted to the Supreme Court asking it to correct the manifest mistakes and errors in that judgment, which are already in the public domain.
“However, the PDP finds it ludicrous, ridiculous and insulting to the sensibilities and respect of the Supreme Court Justices for the APC to hurriedly and malevolently head to the Supreme Court to attempt to arm twist the lord justices to effect a forceful reversal of the valid, flawless and faultless judgments on Bayelsa and Zamfara states governorship elections.

			
			PV: 
			0