The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), says Nigeria is in bad shape, noting that the federal government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari is heaping further pains on Nigeria with its response to the rising insecurity in the country.
National chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, stated this while addressing the 89th Emergency National Executive Committee, NEC, and meeting of the party in Abuja.
Secondus who welcomed eight governors and two deputy governors to the meeting expressed displeasure at the worrying state of security in the country, noting that the situation was getting worse on a daily basis.
“Amidst the frightening insecurity accompanied by mass killings that has set fears on the people, what you get from government is multiple tariffs, Value Added Tax, VAT and continued indulgences in lies and propaganda.
“Even when the National Assembly after reviewing the situation and asked the President to overhaul the security system for greater efficiency, the government has continued to demonstrate their insensitivity to the plight of the populace. Nigerians have never been as afraid of their lives as they are at moment in this country. It’s as bad as that.”
Also speaking, chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum and governor of Sokoto state, Aminu Tambuwal pledged to midwife a process that would bring about a strong bond of unity in the party.
“I assure you that we shall continue to have synergy with the NWC and we shall continue to work together and support our party that is waxing stronger every day.
“As we go into congresses we are appealing for an inclusiveness in whatever we are going to do. We shall be transparent and be accommodating and be free and fair in the conduct of the congresses. The world is watching us and expecting us to build on what we have started with our last convention in Port Harcourt,” Tambuwal said.
Speaking on behalf of the National Assembly caucus, Senate minority leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe pledged to make the Buhari-led government unhappy by constantly pointing out to them the error of their ways.
In attendance were Governors Nyesom Wike, Udom Emmanuel, Bala Mohammed, Aminu Tambuwal and Ifeanyi Okowa of Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Sokoto and Delta states respectively.
Others were Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Duoye Diri (Bayelsa) as well as the deputy governors of Cross River and Zamfara states.





			
			PV: 
			0