The Senator representing Borno Central Senatorial district and former governor of the state, Kashim Shettima, on Thursday called for the investigation of Boko Haram attack on Auno that led to the killing of 30 persons on Sunday.
At least 30 people were killed after suspected Boko Haram fighters set ablaze several trucks carrying passengers on Sunday night.
The passengers were stranded on Sunday evening along a military check point due to the curfew imposed by the military in the town of Auno before the attack.
Speaking on Order 42 and 52 of the Senate rules, the lawmaker was baffled that there was no resistance despite the closeness of the scene to the military formation.
He lamented that the insurgents attacked without resistance from the Nigerian Military which is close to the scene, saying that the incident should be investigated.
In an emotional laden voice, the former governor called for unity of Nigerians against criminal elements, insisting that the level of insecurity has reverted to the sad story of carnage before President Muhammadu Buhari took over in 2015.
ALSO READ: Man stabbed to death by wife (graphic video)
He said: “You recall that last Sunday, the Boko Haram insurgents attacked Auno which is two kilometres from Maiduguri and killed about 30 persons with others critically wounded who are now receiving treatment in hospitals in Maiduguri.
He said when the attacker came, there was no military presence to engage them and no reinforcement despite the proximity of Auno to the headquarters of Operation Lafia Dole.
“While the people of Auno were in shock as a result of the attack, Boko Haram again on Monday at 6.00 pm struck the village of Togumshe in Konduga local government while shooting sporadically and the number of casualties yet to be ascertained.
He revealed that the governor, Alhaji Zulum spent a night attending to casualties who are in critical condition in Maiduguri hospitals.
Shettima called on Nigerians to form alliance against insurgents, adding that it wasn’t time to trade blames.
Senator Kashim Shettima called for outright condemnation of dastardly act, saying that government must take a drastic action against all forms of criminality in Nigeria.




			
			PV: 
			0