US Congress to pass “no ban act”

President Donald Trump of the United States has come under serious criticism and pressure from home over the inclusion of Nigeria on visa ban. The US Congress has demanded the delisting of Nigeria from the visa ban countries.
National Daily learned that the Speaker of the US House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, at the weekend berated President Trump over Nigeria’s inclusion with five other countries in the US travel ban list.
Pelosi had complained that the Trump Administration expansion of the travel ban list is outrageous, threatens security, values and the rule of law in the US. She vowed they will never allow hatred or bigotry to define the US or destroy the country’s values.
Speaker Pelosi, therefore, declared that the House will pass a “no ban act” against the immigrant visa ban to prohibit religious discrimination in America’s immigration system, as well as limit the President’s ability to impose such restrictions, she said are “biased and bigoted”.
Trump expanded his proclamation on suspension of immigrant visas for citizens of Nigeria, Myanmar, Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Sudan and Tanzania. The restriction, however, applies to applicants seeking permanent residence in the U.S., not temporary residence.
ALSO READ: US Nigeria’s visa suspension only on immigrant visas, not total restriction – presidency
But Speaker Pelosi in her statement declared:
“The Trump Administration’s expansion of its outrageous, un-American travel ban threatens our security, our values and the rule of law. The sweeping rule, barring more than 350 million individuals from predominantly African nations from traveling to the United States, is discrimination disguised as policy.
“America’s strength has always been as a beacon of hope and opportunity for people around the world, whose dreams and aspirations have enriched our nation and made America more American. With this latest callous decision, the President has doubled down on his cruelty and further undermined our global leadership, our Constitution and our proud heritage as a nation of immigrants.
“In the Congress and in the Courts, House Democrats will continue to oppose the Administration’s dangerous anti-immigrant agenda. In the coming weeks, the House Judiciary Committee will mark-up and bring to the Floor the NO BAN Act to prohibit religious discrimination in our immigration system and limit the President’s ability to impose such biased and bigoted restrictions. We will never allow hatred or bigotry to define our nation or destroy our values.”

			
			PV: 
			0