The Founder and Director of Adoration Ministry, Emene, Enugu (AMEN), Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka, was recently in the news for a controversial representation on the controversial governorship election judgement of the Supreme Court which was not within his knowledge.   Rev. Mbaka was wrongly reported to have prophesied that the new Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would stay in office with his party for only two months.
Rev. Father Mbaka, thereafter, earlier in the week in his sermon at the Adoration ground, Emene, Enugu, refuted reports insinuating he prophesied the removal of the Bayelsa State governor in two months.
Mbaka was said to have described the report as malicious, handiwork of mischief makers and wicked individuals who are on demonic and satanic assignment to damage his reputation. The Rev. Father had cautioned such persons to desist from further activities else they attract the wrath of God.
The Media and Publicity Secretary of Adoration Ministry, Barr. Ike Maximus Ugwuoke, in a statement declared: “Our attention has been drawn to report in a section of the media that spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Fr. Mbaka, has prophesied that the newly sworn-in Governor of Bayelsa State, Diri Douye will stay in office as Governor for only two months.
ALSO READ: Bayelsa APC abandons David Lyon, switches camp to Diri, PDP
“The report alleged that he predicted this in “Delta State at the ceremony to mark his friend and colleague who clocked 68 years.
“For the sake of justice and fairness, we challenge the originators of this false and mendacious report to mention the name of the so-called Fr Mbaka’s friend and colleague whose ceremony he attended in Delta State. The truth is that Fr Mbaka has not even been in Delta since this year.
“Fr Mbaka has been preoccupied with the charitable and miraculous works God has been using him to do in the ministry. He has been immersed in thanksgiving to God for the fulfilment of his prophecy on Hope Uzodimma becoming the Governor of Imo State and so he never attended any such ceremony in Delta State or anywhere else where he could have made such prediction as alleged by these satanic agents.
“During Fr Mbaka’s Sunday mass today, he refuted this report himself publicly at the altar. Those who impersonate Fr Mbaka in the media should be careful else they are attracting the wrath of God upon themselves.”

			
			PV: 
			0