Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe is still taking flak for calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign from office for alleged failure to provide adequate security across the country.
The Ohaneze Ndigbo Worldwide describes the call as selfish—because it didn’t represent the aspiration of the Igbo to produce Nigeria’s president in 2023.
According to the group, Abaribe’s action was a personal political gimmick designed to manipulate the conscience and emotions of the citizens for his personal gains.
In a statement signed by its Secretary General, Dimm Uche Ukwukwu and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Tuesday, the group said, “The call by Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign from his position as President and Commander-in- chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is an affront on Ndi Igbo worldwide and Nigerians at large.”
It explained how Abaribe lost out in the power game, and now decides to manipulate the conscience and emotions of Nigerians for his personal gains as though he has preferred a solution to the problem the nation is facing.
“Assuming without conceding that Buhari resigns, it means Osinbajo will become president automatically against Igbo interest. So who is Enyinnaya Abaribe working for? How does his actions serve the interest of Ndi Igbo whom he is representing?”
Th group recalled how kidnapping was rampant way back in the southeast, but has died down now in the region under Buhari.
“Regrettably the North-East is still being battled to outrightly free it from Boko Haram which started under the PDP government where Abaribe belongs.
“He should have been the one along with his party to apologise to Nigerians for their inability to stop Boko Haram before Buhari took over.
“Today Enyinnaya Abaribe has within his personal right stood against the Buhari Administration as an arch opponent, yet, Buhari has won his election twice in 2015 and 2019 without the contribution of Abaribe.
The group calls on Ndi Igbo to continue to support the Buhari presidency until 2023 when he will hand over power to Ndi Igbo for the good of Nigeria and in the interest of all in the spirit of unity, patriotism and nationalism”.

			
			PV: 
			0