Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Tuesday launched eight new speed boats at Badore Ferry Terminal, Eti-Osa Local Government Area, towards developing alternative transport system to okada and keke in the state.
A statement by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, Gboyega Akosile, indicated that the launch of the speed boats signified the commencement of commercial operations in waterways transportation and will be operated by the Lagos Ferry Services (LAGFERRY).
Governor also did the launch of mobile application designed to facilitate easy access to water transportation services.
The CPS highlighted that the design and fabrication of the new boats were worked out by two local boat manufacturers.
Sanwo-Olu described the launch as a “great leap” in his administration’s strategy, adding that this will rid Lagos roads gridlock and congestion.
“The narrative of transportation in Lagos is about to change for good, as we are set to take full advantage of the water bodies to decongest our roads and substantially reduce travel time for commuters.
“Today, we are launching eight units of additional ferries to complement the existing six ferries in the fleet of Lagos Ferry Service. It is glaring that for Lagos to be a functional smart city that we desire, there must be diversification of the mode of transportation. There must be interconnectivity of the rail, road, and water transportation systems,” Sanwo-Olu said.
The Governor remarked that the commencement of commercial operations on the waterways would promote healthy living and restore the aesthetics of the environment through the reduction of carbon emission.
He called on private investors to move in and harness opportunities in the value chain, noting that the Government had solved the teething problems associated with the mode of transportation and infrastructure.
Governor Sanwo-Olu also said that the State Government would enforce full compliance on measures put in place to ensure the safety of commuters using the waterways, adding that the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) was being strengthened to effectively discharge its monitoring and regulatory duties in line with best practice.
Sanwo-Olu promised that modern jetties would also be built in Badagry, Lekki, and Ajegunle, adding that the one being built in Ijegun would be completed.

			
			PV: 
			0