says LASG prioritize their safety

Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Speaker of the Lagos House of Assembly and Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, Rt. Hon. ( Dr) Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa has described the recent ban or restriction of  Motorcycle and Tricycle on some major roads as a measure to guarantee safety of  the citizenry.Rt. Hon. Obasa made this assertion at parley with Associations of motorcycle and tricycle operators at his constituency office in Agege area of Lagos.
Speaking at the meeting, Rt. Hon. Obasa commended the associations for been calm and law abiding since the pronouncement of restriction/ban of motorcycles and tricycles on major highways in the state.
He said the restriction was not to deny them of their means of livelihood but to ensure safety of lives in the metropolis.
“We are aware of the violence that trailed the restriction of your activities in some part of the state. I want to use this opportunity to commend and appreciate you for staying calm and law abiding here in Agege.


“Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has no hatred for motorcycle and tricycle operators but there’s the need to protect the citizens.
“I want to implore your Associations to identify some of the problems hindering your operations, identify alternative routes, map out those that are not motorable and tell us. This way, the local government will come in to assist.

“This is not going to be our last meeting. In our next meeting, I will invite the Area Commanders and DPO’s in this local government, the Commissioner of Police as well as the State Commissioner for Transport and find a lasting solution to the issues of indiscriminate arrests in areas not applicable,” he said.
He urged them to come up with positive ideas that will aid their smooth operation within the approved routes adding that the government will not hesitate to support them.
“You people are professionals and should behave as such. Always be law abiding. Come up with positive ideas and the government will support. The door of my office is wide open for deliberations on how to be useful to ourselves,” he assured them.









			
			PV: 
			0