Hypertension, or high blood pressure, is when the blood in the body has to pump blood harder than usual. When a person has this condition, they can suffer from symptoms like fatigue, migraines, and eventually heart failure.
If you want to prevent getting high blood pressure, try and steer clear of the types of food mentioned in this list.
Popcorn
Popcorn might not look like it would cause a lot of health concerns, but considering the amount of salt, you need to think twice. A serving of popcorn has around 1,058 mg of sal. Now that is already two-thirds of the recommended daily sodium intake
Processed meats
Processed meats like sausages and chicken nuggets consist of sodium and saturated fats which can cause migraines and artery plaque buildup. These nutrients are not friendly to those with high blood pressure.
Noodles
Noodles are known to be cheap and easy-to-cook food. Considering the amount of sodium (1,580 mg) in one cup of noodles, you may want to think twice before popping one of these in the microwave.
ALSO READ: “Too many fake shoe for one person”, Apkororo blasted for showing his fake footwares
Alcohol
Alcohol can cause vasodilation, causing blood vessels to tighten. When consumed, the blood is harder to go through the arteries making the heart to work harder, leading to high blood pressure.
Peanut butter
Peanut butter might seem to have lots of salt, but this is not the case. The saturated fats found in peanut butter are more than enough to cause plaque buildup in the arteries. Think again before finishing a jar of peanut butter on your own.
Soft drinks
Soda can also be called liquidized sugar drinks. Drinking a can of soda can cause blood pressure spikes instantaneously. Although they are addictive, try to drink water for your own sake.
Coffee
Coffee doesn’t have high amounts of salt or saturated fats, but what makes this miracle drink because high blood pressure is caffeine. It is a chemical compound that helps a person stay awake by making the heart pump blood more than usual.
Fried Food
Fried food is bad for your health any day of the week. Although fried food is tasty, the amount of trans fats from the cooking oil is enough to cause blood pressure to spike.
Pizza
Pizza contains a lot of cheese and salty tomato sauce, meaning that there is a huge dose of sodium and carbohydrates spread all around it. Eating one slice is enough to cause high blood pressure.

			
			PV: 
			0