A close look at Manchester United’s trophy gallery will remind one that the Old Trafford club still remains one of the greatest football clubs in the world.
Unfortunately, the exit of Sir Alex Ferguson as United manager in May, 2013 has seen the Red Devils endured some challenging moments as they have unsuccessfully dominated even the domestic league.
United are finally ready to intensify their rebuilding process
However, Manchester United have begun with their rebuilding process under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer which is aimed at returning Old Trafford club to the apex.
Report reaching National Daily has revealed that United are reportedly preparing a audacious £160million double swoop for Jack Grealish and James Maddison this summer.
National Daily gathered that United’s Executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward has promised that manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer will be backed this summer in a bid to make United capable of challenging for the Premier League title once again.
Solskjaer is prepared to lose Pogba this summer
Solskjaer is prepared to lose Paul Pogba this summer and is ready to invest the proceeds from the Frenchman’s transfer in bringing the English pair of Grealish and Maddison to United in the summer National Daily further learnt from the claim by The Sun.
Grealish and Maddison are arguably among the best midfielders in English Premier League this season and United will not hesitate to acquire their services in their bid to rebuild a formidable team.
Grealish and Maddison are arguably among EPL best midfielders this season
Meanwhile, Maddison is in talks with Leicester over a new deal, but United are prepared to double what’s being offered by the Foxes by tabling a £200,000-a-week contract.
Recall that United already signed Bruno Fernandes for an initial £47m in the January transfer window, but Solskjaer will look to further boost the engine room with the addition of £70m-rated Grealish.
Solskjaer and United are hoping to capitalize on the friendship that exist between Maddison and Grealish as a tool to lure them both to the Old Trafford.
National Daily learnt that United are believed to win the race for Grealish’s signature despite competitions from La Liga superpowers Barcelona and Real Madrid going by former Aston Villa striker Tony Cascarino’s assessment.
I think there are a number of clubs that could take Jack,” Cascarino told TalkSport.
“I think Manchester United is where he will go because I think they will be the guys that will go the hardest for him.
“United now are going to go with a sledgehammer with certain transfers they want to get over the line, and Jack, I think, is going to be one of them.”

			
			PV: 
			0