By Olanrewaju Adesanya

A fast-rising Disk Jockey, Victor Irere popularly known as Dj Therapy has announced his forthcoming talent hunt programme in the bariga community tagged Dj Therapy Takes Bariga Concert

The Disk Jockey, who is currently undergoing his Masters Programme in the Department of Psychology at the University of Lagos, made this known at a briefing held yesterday in Lagos.

Irere, who themed this year’s event as Rewriting the Script 4.0, said that essence of the concert is to appeal to the negative perception people have towards bariga.

The lined up programme features concert and boxing championship.
He added that the concert was crafted in a way to unleash the hidden talents of the members of the community in the areas of music, dancing, singing, literary and debating and so many others.

Victor lauded the lawmaker representing the constituency at the Lagos Assembly, Hon. Rotimi Abiru and the Bariga Local Government Chairman, Hon. Kolade Alabi for their activeness and doggedness in changing its face through rehabilitation of roads and provision of other social amenities.

“Bariga, being noted outside and within the community for such vices as cultism, drug use, internet fraud, violence, school drop-out, robbery, among others.

“Bariga needs a new image, a new identity and a new story line; hence the theme- Rewriting The Script.

“So, it became an imperative for me to take the handle and steer a new course for Bariga  and her people.

“I really want to appreciate the prominent representative of Bariga Local Government-Hon. Rotimi Abiru of the Lagos state House of Assembly and the Local government chairman, Hon. Alabi Kolade, for their efforts in changing the face of the constituency in the areas of rehabilitation of roads and provision of other social amenities”He said.

Therapy, however, noted that despite being notorious for the vices, Bariga is also widely known for producing prolific and highly valued entertainers such as Olamide, Dj Enimoney and 9ice

He added Tony Tetuila, Lil Kesh, Minus-2, Kofi, Bash and so many others.

Irere said that entertainment has always been proven to be a unifying force and a tool for providing amusement and lifting people out of their emotional, mental or financial setbacks either from being a performer or audience.





ALSO READ: Tiwa Savage may not like this advice from Peter Okoye

The Dj said that entertainment created a common ground for every people by bringing them together while distracting them from such vices that has become a trademark for the community, while also creating the youths with new and legitimate career paths either by being boxers, musicians, comedians, actors or whatever type of talents they inhibit.

“Dj Therapy Takes Bariga Concert is a social project set up to further complement the efforts of corporate bodies, non- profit organizations and other well-meaning individuals with the intent of ensuring the development of youth, image making and peace of the community through entertainment and sports from the community.

“The project is a musical concert cum boxing championship which is organized by Dj Therapy and Imperium Co. in partnership with Always Boxing Gym the famous grassroots sports organization in the community and other community stakeholders, influencers and ambassadors” He said.

Irere recalled that the immediate past edition of the event had in attendance over 1000 spectators, 30 amateur boxers fighting 15 bouts in total, judges, observers and umpires from the Lagos State Boxing Association.

The DJ stated that musicians like Seriki, Bella Shmurda, Skailey Mental, Bodnice and Sunkey snoop among others.








			
			PV: 
			0