The Police has apprehended an alledged ATM card thief. This recent news was narrated on Facebook by a relative of the victim.

He narrated that, “My mum was duped of 500k last night. She went to the Atm, tried to put her pin, it wasnt working. She saw a young man standing behind her, and turned to him to complain or vent basically. Feigning concern, he asked to assist her try again. Being so trusting herself, she gave him the card. He put it, and told her the Atm card was stuck, and that she needed to go inside the bank and tell them. She went to the security man, since the bank was already closed and did just that. By the time she  came out, the man already left. Oh, he told her he was a policeman”. 

He continued, “Fast forward to 12 midnight, she got her first transfer alert 300k. Then 100k. Until there was only 30k left in the account. She got dressed, then drove  to town with my dad, and made a police report. But they couldn’t do much, since they were not sure the Atm terminal he made the transfer from”.

According to the testifier, At about 1am, the ATM thief made another transfer. But this time through a POS machine of Eastgate Hotel. And this venue is less than 15 minutes walk from their house. The ATM thief paid for the room, and ordered food as well.

“We called back the police men, told them of our findings and they met us at  the hotel in less than 30 minutes. They got into the hotel, checked the person who lodged in at the time the POS sent the alert. The print-out they had corresponded with my mum’s Atm card number. That was how we apprehended him with the girl he made the transfer of the first 300k to”. 

Now the lady in question. Who recieved the 300k said he was meeting him for the first time, but they’ve been friends on Facebook for a while. They also recovered some ATM cards, which included the testifer’s mum’s card, and the printout he used for the transactions.

This has inspired the victims trust in the Nigerian Police Force.


			
			PV: 
			0