No fewer than 25, 000 APC members in Zamfara State including the former Deputy Inspector General of Police, DIG Mamman Tsafe, Tsafe Local Government council chairman, Hon. Aminu Mudi Tsafe and the ten councilors of the Local Government council and their supporters have dumped APC for PDP.
Declaring their defection at the state Government House in Gusau, the state capital, the leader of the group, Hon. Aminu Mudi Tsafe said that nobody intimidated them to defect.
The Tsafe council chairman noted that before Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle came on board, Tsafe Local Government Area was a no go area as the armed bandits and notorious kidnappers were roaring like wounded lions, unleashing terror attacks on innocent citizens of the Local Government Area.
“I wish to make it categorically clear that we are decamping with thousands of our supporters from the Local Government Area of the state. Nobody intimidated us, but we decamped on our own accord,” he said.
The chairman assured that many more members of APC would still decamp from his Local Government Area.
ALSO READ: PDP raises alarm over APC plot to intimidate Supreme Court over Imo, Bayelsa, Zamfara review cases
While receiving the defectors, the state chairman of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Ibrahim Malaha expressed satisfaction over their defection, saying that they decamped because they have seen positive changes on ground.
The State PDP chairman who mocked APC said it was indeed the era of decampment from all the registered political parties in the state to PDP, stressing that his party was very much ready to welcome defectors to the party.
He said that PDP in Zamfara State was operating an inclusive as well as government of unity irrespective of any political affiliation, pointing out that all his party needs in the state is a total success.
It could be recalled that since Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle came on board, the rate of terror attacks and massacres have reduced in the state.
Before the coming of the present government, the state has been a colony of banditry and kidnappings which seized commerce and farming entirely as people were afraid to go to their farms or markets.




			
			PV: 
			0