The Taraba State government may have foiled plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to instigate the impeachment of Governor Darius Ishaku by the House of Assembly. The state government held that the absence of the governor from the state does not constitute impeachable offence.
Sources from the state revealed that the state executive had liaise with members of the House of Assembly to clarify issues and make them understand the fitness of Governor Ishaku Darius to continue in office, placing everyone on alert over the plot by the APC to destabilise the Taraba State government. the state lawmakers were said to have admitted that there is no caused for alarm over the leadership of Governor Ishaku Darius.
The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan-Abu, in a statement on Thursday berated leaders of the All Progressives Congress ( APC) in Taraba State for the illusion that the governor who is seeking medical attention in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, has committed impeachable offence for his removal from office.
APC leaders in Taraba State had observed that Governor Darius Ishaku has been absent from the state for long, and therefore, his absence implies that he has become incapable to continue in office as governor of the state.
But Dan-Abu protested that Governor Ishaku is in Abuja to seek medical attention for a domestic injury he sustained.
The Taraba State government, therefore, warned the leadership of the APC in the state to eschew from campaign of hate, calumny, acrimony and obvious plots to instigate  the Taraba State House of Assembly to impeach Governor Ishaku Darius over his brief  absence from the state.
Dan-Abu maintained that the absence of the governor has not obstructed governance in the state, pointing out that development projects and all other forms of service delivery to the people are going on smoothly across the state.  The SSA Media insisted that Governor Ishaku is not on vacation or incapacitated to perform his duties, which are the conditions for him to transmit power to deputy governor as the Constitution prescribes.
Dan-Abu reiterated his caution on the APC leaders in Taraba State to desist from political intransigence and attempts to mislead the people of the state and members of the State House of Assembly into spurious perception that Governor Ishaku can no longer perform the duties for which he was elected Taraba Governor in the 2019 elections.
He commended the State Legislature for ignoring the instigation of the APC leaders for the impeachment of the governor.
He counseled the APC to join Governor Ishaku in the commitment for the development of the state and improving the welfare of the people.

			
			PV: 
			0