The embattled national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, is beginning to face bigger troubles in the party over his leadership failure that has continued to cause the party electoral misfortunes in several states.   Several APC members stormed the APC Secretariat, Abuja, demanding the removal of Oshiomhole from office.
The party members under the umbrella of Concerned APC Youths argued that Oshimhole should be removed from the office of the national chairman because the party has lost more states under him, the most recent being Bayelsa State.
The protesting APC members displayed various placards with inscriptions demanding Oshiomhole’s removal.
It was gathered that a leader of the protesting youths, Agricola Ejembi, in a media interaction,  said the group is petitioning President Muhuammadu Buhari to intervene in the affairs of the party and address what they considered the dwindling fortunes of the party under leadership of Oshiomhole.
The APC youths were expressing their anger over the Supreme Court judgment which  made the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Friday to declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Duoye Diri, winner of the Bayelsa State governorship election, and issued the certificate of return to him immediately.
ALSO READ:  APC faults Diri’s swearing-in, demands fresh election in Bayelsa
The Supreme Court in its judgment on Thursday had nullified the victory of David Lyon of the APC, and directed the withdrawal of certificate of return earlier issued him.
Justice Ejembi Ekwo, who read the lead judgment on Thursday made the orders after disqualifying the APC’s deputy governorship candidate, Degi-Eremienyo, as a candidate in the election for submitting forged certificates to INEC.
The court ruled that Degi-Eremienyo’s disqualification had infected the joint ticket with which he and the governorship candidate, Lyon, ran for and won November 16, 2019.
The entire process was traced to Oshiomhole’s leadership grandstanding with which candidates were imposed on the party irrespective of the members choice or the credibility of such candidate.

			
			PV: 
			0