Reports reaching National Daily reveal that Manchester United are finally ready to deal with the challenge that comes with Paul Pogba’s attitude at the Old Trafford.
It is believed that United have reportedly given Paul Pogba the green light to leave the club during the summer and have reduced their original valuation of the midfielder by £30million.
Pogba’s erratic attitude at Old Trafford has left many United fans divided
The Frenchman has always been heavily linked with a departure from the Red Devils since the start of last summer after indicating that he is ready for a new challenge.
Previously, some European giants in the like of Real Madrid and Juventus were understood to be among the clubs interested in signing the France international.
Zinadine Zidane and Real Madrid have not hidden their admiration for Pogba
Meanwhile, United have previously insisted that they had no intention of selling the World Cup winner, but National Daily gathered from the report by The Sun that the club are now prepared to part ways with the 26-year-old because they feel his current situation is having a negative effect among Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s squad.
According to The Sun, Pogba and his agent Mino Raiola have been informed that he will be allowed to leave for the right price at the end of the season National Daily learnt.
Pogba could be making a sensational return to Juventus
No doubt, United still want to make a good profit on a player they bought for £89m in 2016, it is however claimed that they will lower their asking price for the Frenchman to increase their chances of striking a deal.
United are understood to have demanded a fee of £180m last summer, but would now be willing to accept offers of £150m.
The Sun’s claims come amid reports that Pogba will not join his United team-mates when they fly to Spain for their warm-weather training camp on Saturday which eventually became a reality as the France international was eventually left out the travelling squad.
National Daily gathered from the claims by Daily Star that Solskjaer personally told Pogba that he was not wanted on the trip and has left him to his own devices as he continues to recover from an ankle injury.




			
			PV: 
			0