China, and some other countries, including the United Kingdom and the United States, are battling the outbreak of coronavirus.

The outbreak which is spreading fast to other countries started in a food market in China.

Within the short period, over 10,000 cases have been recorded in at least 17 countries with over 200 deaths confirmed.

The coronavirus outbreak has been declared a global health emergency by theWorld Health Organization (WHO).

Following the reports of the outbreak, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) issued a travel advisory to Nigeria’s airports’ users.

The federal agency called on passengers in the country and other airport users to comply with all quarantine procedures.

An inter-ministerial dialogue meeting was also been convened by the Federal Ministry of Health to develop a national action plan on the coronavirus also known as 2019-nCoV.

ALSO READ: Coronavirus: Lagos on red alert over returnee Chinese into Nigeria

The meeting was led by the minister of state for health, Osagie Ehanire, with federal and state stakeholders in attendance.

According to the commissioner for health in Lagos, Professor Akin Abayomi, who made the information about the meeting available via his official Twitter handle, several key decisions to tighten and enhance surveillance against the importation of the virus into Nigeria were taken by the health stakeholders.

Professor Abayomi added that he is part of the sub-committee tasked to develop the master plan on the virus.

However, in the early hours of Saturday, February 1, rumours started flying around that a coronavirus virus case has been confirmed in Lagos, particularly in Lekki.

Some of the reports about the alleged coronavirus case claimed that “a suspected carrier is being quarantined at a hospital in Lekki”.

There is no case of Coronavirus virus in Lagos, the special assistant to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on health, Oreoluwa Finnih, has confirmed.

According to Lagos governor’s aide, a Nigerian man returned from a business trip to China two days ago.

Upon his return, his employers mandated him to go for a thorough checkup at their hospital.

The unnamed man was examined found asymptomatic, that is, he did not show any symptoms of coronavirus.

He was subsequently cleared after several laboratory tests were conducted. The China returnee was, however, advised to self-quarantine for 14 days.





			
			PV: 
			0