The Biafra Nations Youth League (BNYL), a supplementary organ of the movement for independent State of Biafra in southeast Nigeria,  has commenced preparations for commemoration of “Ekukunela Declarations” which emerged from the BNYL resolution at Ekukunela, an Ejagham town in Ikom Local Government Area, Cross River State,  five years ago.
The BNYL disclosed that the Youth League has appointed a planning committee to organize the event, which is scheduled for April 12 in Ikom, Cross River State.
BNYL Chief of General Staff, and leader of Displaced Bakassi Youths, Linus Essien, had in a media interaction on Tuesday revealed:  “the decision to mark the Ekukunela Declaration every 12 of April came during our General Assembly last February, that was the day the true spirit of oneness entered our body.”
Essien explained that the declaration focused on four major issues affecting the people of the former Eastern Nigeria and the Bakassi. He said: “One is the British Conspiracy during the Colonial era; second is the splitting of indigenous tribes into Nigeria and Cameroon; three is the Blockade of Biafra over Bakassi Peninsula and four, the denial of Biafra identity in the Niger Delta”.
Essien said that copies of the documented resolution were distributed in on Monday in the Bakassi Peninsula, adding: “it will go round the east before the event comes up”.
ALSO READ: IPOB leader, Kanu reacts to ISWAP beheading of Christians in Nigeria
Essien further disclosed that many groups in the southeast and south-south, including the Southern Cameroons endorsed the declaration.
BNYL cautioned the Nigeria government to eschew from using the security operatives to destabilize the event, assuring the League will ensure peaceful activities. They warned further that any attempt to destabilize the event may lead to chaos; insisting: “… we will not just protest the action, but we will make sure there is no peace if we are stopped”.
The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has always descended violently, deploying the Nigerian Army, to crush participants in activities relating to Biafra agitation in the southeast Nigeria. The Nigerian Army were also deployed to carry out operations that chased the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, away from Nigeria.

			
			PV: 
			0