By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Public Accounts Committee of the Federal House of Representatives has lauded the Executive Director of the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board,Chief Mrs Lucy Omosefe Ajayi for her efforts to ensure probity and unmatched proactiveness in handling affairs at the  trade fair.

The commendation was given at the two week long public hearing of All Stakeholders and Ministries,Departments &Agencies of Government (MDAs),themed: Need to Investigate the deliberate and reckless refusal by Non-Treasury and partially funded Agencies to render their audited accounts covering the period 2014-2018 to the Auditor General for the Federation HR 252/12/2019.

Ajayi who acknowledged the fact that her agency the LITFCMB is fully funded,noted that she made the appearance in recognition of the importance of the committee and by extension the House of Representatives.

“My agency is fully funded but for the respect I have for the committee I decided to make this appearance.”

She rendered her agency’s audited accounts covering the period 2014-2018 to the Auditor General of the Federation for scrutiny.

The Chairman Public Accounts Committee,Hon Oluwole Oke reckoned with her presentation where it was discovered that she accommodated an external auditor all in a bid to ensure accountability and transparency.

“We asked that you come on Friday,but you decided to come and sort the matter out we appreciate your coming.

“I always say when you ask a woman to do a business,they are ready to do the job very well,we commend you for that.

“I am convinced and very sure that under your leadership accountability is assured.

The committee raised concern about some financial lapses spotted in the previous years as presented by the External Auditor in LITFCMB account between 2014-2018, most of which predates Chief (Mrs) Lucy Omosefe Ajayi’s administration,precisely from 2014 to 2016,this LITFCMB financial statements were all signed by the the previous administration.


It will be recalled that Chief Lucy Omosefe Ajayi resumed Office on April 2017,therefore she was exonerated from the defence of the said financial statements.


A later date shall be gotten for status enquiry to finalise the process.


			
			PV: 
			0