Nollywood actor, writer, cast director, producer cum executive producer and entrepreneur, Kelvin Chima, also known as Nwamazi, is about to release a new movie. This latest film titled Charm is an epic project with the synopsis, “A young widow has been wrongly accused of killing her husband, running away from the wrath of her accusers Chihua stumbles on the trap of a kind hunter, who almost shot her seeing her from a distance lying on the ground like a dying animal. Achebe has healed her wounds but her calamity has befallen all that comes closer to aid her. Now Achebe insists that if true LOVE does exist, then dying for that loved one can never be overemphasized”.
Speaking to the creative head, he said, “This special project to me. When I was writing the story I refused to attend to any other business because of the love and joy I felt within me. It’s truly awesome that I had the opportunity to tell such a story inspired by God’s Grace.
“It was epic so I can fully capture and discuss the origin of violence against women. It’s a beautiful story, that’s why I technically paid tribute to the great storyteller – Chinua Achebe. I called the Female Lead Protagonist Chinua. And the hero is named Achebe. That’s how I chose to pay my humble tribute to the legend Chinua Achebe.
“”You know in those days women passed through a lot of injustices that because they are seen as    the weaker vessel no one seems to give them audience in most accusations even when they are innocent. So the movie Charm tries to address some of those issues how it started and why the society of today should as much as possible let the women express themselves”.
He also spoke about the issues affecting the industry. According to him, a lot of issues abound, but he gives a huge respect to all producers still making movies in Nigeria. “If we begin to calculate the challenges we may discourage investors but all the same the challenges here are just like every other challenge in every creative industry. Although most times the one we experience here is disheartening. You can imagine what I passed through in my last two projects flying a lot of thespians from Lagos to Enugu and because the Enugu airport is shot down, I have to use the alternative which is Owerri.”
He said the Asaba airport which would have been easier and cheaper to Enugu has a very bad route and paying Airport Taxis the equivalent of the flight fare to bring the actors from Owerri airport to Enugu was really crazy.
“Now someone will say why not you use the actors over there, but the people buying the contents have the kind of actors they are looking out for moreover a Kelvin Chima Nwamazi wants his job to standout and going extra mile to make that job come out well is my paramount desire. So those are few areas our Government would have saved me that stress and expenses”.
He went on to say that in the face of all these challenges there’s a slogan that Nollywood believes in and that has been the anchor through all the turbulent storms they encounter, which is “the show must continue”. So irrespective of the challenges they face or the inadequacies of the Government. That slogan keeps them going.
 

			
			PV: 
			0