The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum, SMBLF, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately order the setting up of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to investigate the alleged interception of weaponized drone by the Military Intelligence at Lagos Airport.
SMBLF also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order the suspension of Commodore U K Abdullahi and contain his movement while the Judicial Commission of Inquiry carries out its assignment.
A joint statement issued by Yinka Odumakin, Gen. Cru Ihekire, Senator Bassey Henshaw and Dr lsuwa Dogo from
South West, South East, South South and Middle Belt explained that its attention was drawn to a story reported by an online newspaper on, “Weaponised drone intercepted by military intelligence at Lagos Airport and the Commander received order to release suspect”.
SMBLF observed that the story alleged that the personnel of the Nigerian Army Department of Military Intelligence at the local wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, have arrested a man for being in possession of two highly weaponized drones.
It noted that the incident happened on January 28, 2020 at about 5:00pm while DMI officers at the cargo section discovered a suspicious package concealed in cartons.
The statement also alleged that upon opening the cartons, the officers discovered parts of two highly weaponized drones and the supervisor told the man that brought it into the country to go and report the following day.
It added that investigation revealed that the following day, the man was asked to write a statement after which he was detained.
It further said investigation revealed that, Commander of NADC, Air commodore U.K Abdullah, later received a call from some unknown persons, who ordered him to release the man and the drones, stressing that Abdullah, it was gathered, later released the suspect and the drones on January 30, 2020.
The forum observed, “This should be the kind of stuff Gen T. Y Danjuma said would not make us sleep if he should open his mouth if this is true.
“How on earth would security agents allow Weaponized Drones allegedly meant for Kaduna State go into the system in a country raising fuss over attempt by other states to employ guards without even dane guns?
“As far as we know, Weaponized Drones can only come into a country with the approval of the President and the end user must be the country’s armed forces.
“Indeed, the manufacturer would follow the equipment until it gets to the end user as it is more or less a lethal weapon of destruction.”
SMBLF wandered, “How did these equipments get into Nigeria and the hands of an individual if the story happens to be true?
“Whose call would the Commander allegedly receive to release the weapons and the suspect?
“How many of such dangerous weapons could have been brought into the system illegally by unscrupulous people with the lives of Nigerians in danger. This is Frightening.”
The forum appealed, “We call on President Buhari to immediately order the suspension of Commodore U K Abdullahi and contain his movement while a Judicial Commission of Inquiry is set up immediately. ”

			
			PV: 
			0