It’s quite important for parents to understand the role they need to play in the lives of their children. While raising a boy or a girl. It’s quite important to create that fair balance in the methods and approach we adopt as perents. The girl’s ego must be damaged before she becomes an adult. And she must not become programmed negatively as well. Here are a guide on how to raise the girl child along with the boys:

1. Assistant-Parents:
Daughters should not wear this badge like the school prefects do. Don’t make your daughters Assistant-Parents to their brothers. If he scatters the room, tell him to arrange it. If he rough handles his clothes, he should wash them. Never make them feel that their sister is there to serve them. Although elder sisters will be elder sisters but it shouldn’t become elder servant.

2. Sole General Manager:
Everyone must be involved in managing the house. Your boys should be fully involved in domestic chores. There should be a timetable — the day he sweeps, cleans the house, and also cooks. You should let your sons know that everyone that loves eating should know how to cook! Let them know it’s a basic survival skill!

3. Sole Respect Disher:
Respect is earned. Do not ask your girls to respect their brothers because they are boys. I see this a lot in homes. The parents will tell the girls: “why would you talk to him like that? He’s a man.”

ALSO READ: JSS 2 student impregnates NYSC member

No! Let your boys know that if they want respect from their girls, they must earn it! Respect is reciprocal.

4. Sole Emotion Shower:
It is not only the girls that can show or express emotions. Do not stop your boys from expressing vulnerability. Don’t tell them to man up. Don’t shame them for crying. Let them express their full humanness. Boys are humans. Boys have emotions. Boys should not suppress emotions.

5. Husband Servant:
Let the girl child be a girl before being a wife. And even at that don’t make it seem like she came to this world because of a husband. When your girl child makes a mistake, do not say things like: “is this how you’ll take care of your husband?”. Her life is more than having a man, teach her that things should be done right not because of having and ‘keeping’ a man!

6. Lower Excellent Specie:
A girl can become anything. She can lead a man. Don’t compare your kids based on gender. Some parents do this. When their girl child is doing better than their boys, they say things like: “Are you not ashamed that your sister is doing better than you?! And you’re a boy…”. You‘re teaching him that excellence isn’t for women.

7. Sole Accountability Officer:
She isn’t the only one that should be accountable. Make your boys feel accountable too. Some parents will scold their girls over something they’ll ignore the boys when they do it. Don’t make your boys feel that their standards are lower, and women have higher moral standards! You’re breeding spoilt boys who become terrible partners.


			
			PV: 
			0