It’s no news that there has been a recent spread of the disease in some parts of the world, especially in China where it originated from.
Several countries have recorded death while some others have created control mechanisms to prevent the spread of the disease.
As Nigeria records its first occurrence, it’s typical to see people panic and create social media trends from the news.
Out of panic, some people have originated some misconception and myths about the virus.
1. Chloroquine cures coronavirus
The misconception of curing or preventing coronavirus with chloroquine is totally false. The lead for clinical management in the World Health Organization (WHO) Health Emergencies Programme, Dr Janet Diaz confirmed that there is no proof to claims that chloroquine can be a potential treatment for the infection.
2. Antiseptic soaps and bleaches prevents infection
While you can use bleach to clean your surfaces, using it or soaps on your body will not prevent you from getting it. Coronavirus is airborne, so you need to prevent it from getting into your body through your mouth, ear and nose.
3. Stop receiving packages from China
According to researchers, the virus does not stay alive for a long time so it’s not possible for you to get through a package that travelled for days and weeks to get to you. The illness is most likely transmitted by droplets from an infected person’s sneeze or cough.
4. Face mask prevents you contracting Coronavirus
Tight fitted face masks like the N95 are used by health workers for protection when treating infected patients. According to research, light disposable surgical masks may provide some protection from sprays or splashes, but because they don’t fit tightly, they may allow tiny infected droplets to get into the nose, mouth or eyes.
People with a respiratory illness like catarrh, cough and more can wear these masks to lessen their chance of infecting others.
5. Antibiotics can prevent the disease
According to the WHO, antibiotics do not work against viruses, only bacteria. So don’t abuse antibiotics.
The new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is a virus and, therefore, antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment. However, if you are hospitalised for the 2019-nCoV, you may receive antibiotics because bacterial co-infection is possible.

 





			
			PV: 
			0