The Kaduna State Ministry of Sports Development is set to upgrade 32 schools sporting facilities across the four Educational zones in the State.
National Daily learnt that  Media  SA Media to the Honorable Commissioner for Sports Development, Mallam Ismaila Lere told newsmen that the schools have been identified and carefully selected on merit based on their track records as far as school sports in the state is concerned.
“We are going to develop 32 schools sporting facilities across Kaduna State.
” These schools have been carefully selected across the four Educational zones based on merit and their track records over the years. We have identified them and the criteria used  in selecting these schools across the four  zones is purely on merit.
“We are collaborating with the Ministry of Education and as soon as procurement is secured, we shall swing into action immediately.
” Schools like Barewa College, Queen Amina College and Sardauna Memorial College, SMC and others have done exceptionally well in school sports and  their outstanding records  over the years are  there for all to see.
When asked to disclose the names of the selected schools, the SA Media said: “At the right time, the names of the  beneficiaries would be made public. We are only carrying out the mandate of the State Governor, Mallam Nasir El rufia to upgrade facilities, identify and develop talents across the state.
ALSO READ: MANCHESTER UNITED TRANSFER: Good news for the Red Devils fans as Solskjaer targets another world class player before deadline
The SA Media also briefed newsmen on progress made at the ongoing Inter School Competition organized by the Ministry taking place at the Kaduna Township Stadium and Ahmadu Bello Stadium respectively, which is part of the Ministry’s sporting programme for the  year where games like Football, Volleyball, Basketball and Athletics are being competed for by over 850 athletes by various schools across the state.
” We selected Football, Volleyball, Basketball and Athletics in order to resuscitate school sports. Athletes and officials from 12 zones went through accreditation for over twelve hours and some activities had already commenced as all the athletes are eligible to participate after going through thorough screening.
“This is an activity that has not been done in Kaduna State for over 24 years. We are going to create programmes that would enhance their development in order to discourage them from vices. Without such sporting activities, schools cannot develop and talents will not be discovered for nurturing.
When further asked if there are sponsors for the Inter School Competition, the SA Media responded: ” Right now, this programme is solely sponsored by the Kaduna State government, but we are discussing with corporate bodies to partner us and hopefully, they would come up with  something tangible during the National Festival games in March.
“Let me also say that we have the data bank of these athletes and coaches. We decided to have accreditation for coaches, athletes, media, medical, security and a few others in order to test run our capacity and capability ahead of the forthcoming National Sports Festival billed for Edo in March.”
The four day sporting event is expected to climax this Saturday at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium and Governor Nasir El rufai is expected as the special guest of honour.

			
			PV: 
			0