The much awaited 3rd edition of the Edo State Sports Festival kicked off yesterday with the Opening Ceremony at the University of Benin Sports Complex amidst pump and pageantry from cultural tropes, musical performances and match pass by all the participating 18 Local Governments of Edo State.
The capacity full sports stadium had in attendance all the 18 Local Government Chairmen and their athletes who celebrated their rich traditional culture through sports in the presence of the special guest of honour, the Executive Governor of Edo State Mr Godwin Obaseki, his Deputy Comrade Philip Shuibu, the Chairman of the Edo State Sports Commission and Chairman of the Organising Committee Barrister Godwin Dudu-Orumen and other State Executive functionaries including the Legislative arm led by the Speaker of the State House of Assembly Hon. Francis Okiye and the host the Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin in attendance.
The Honourable Minister of Youth & Sports Mr Sunday Dare and his entourage were also on ground to  grace the occasion.
In his opening remarks the Executive Governor thanked the Organising Committee for a good job so far and promised to make the State Sports Festival an annual event going forward. He further pledged a prize money of N5m for the winner of the 3rd State Sports Festival. The second will get N3m, while the third will receive N1m.
One of the highlight of the event was the lighting of the Game’s Touch of Unity by the Deputy Governor after its tour of all the 18 Local Government of the State.
The event will feature all the 32 Sports in the state and run from today Tuesday 11 to Saturday 15 February being the Closing Ceremony in different center across Benin City.
Meanwhile, Rugby featuring 6 Gold Medals has been slated to take place on Thursday 13 and Friday 14 February 2020 at Idia College from 9am to 6pm daily.
During this period, there will also be a Rugby Match Official Training Seminar / Clinic running concurrently with the State Sports Festival Rugby event from Wed 12 to Saturday 15 February 2020 at Idia College.

			
			PV: 
			0