A devastated former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, has sub-consciously committed himself to 12 things that will help Governor Godwin Obaseki win the Edo governorship election. These include:
1. God knows that Godwin comes from a large family in Benin Kingdom, he went to School, he finished his Secondary School, he went to University of Ibadan, he finished, there were no issues, he finished in flying colours.
2. He went to the U.S., he did his Masters, he came back home, started helping people to set up Businesses, he helped to manage businesses, he helped to set up many Banks including several second-generation Banks.
3. *I don’t care if Obaseki betrays me at the end of the day, Obaseki’s allegiance should be to the people and not me.*
4. The oath of office he is going to subscribe to says that he will defend the Constitution of Nigeria, he will do everything to uplift the quality of life of Edo people.
Nothing in his oath of office will include ‘I shall not betray my predecessor’ because I have no interest to be betrayed.
5. Obaseki had been part of the tradition, he knows the vision, he knows the mission, he knows the target, he knows where we are, he knows the challenges, and he knows how to overcome them.
6. He sits in the office of the economic team which he built using his network of friends inside the heart of government house without demanding one naira.
7. I know my limit.
He knows his limit.
Godwin Obaseki has worked for seven and half years for the people of Edo state, using his brain, creativity, quietly, not making noise.
8. A man like Obaseki, who will not ask me to give him contracts, but will promise me, comrade, you just do the thinking, we will create the means to actualise your thoughts.
9. And to his credit today, check the books of Edo state, we did not build new structures in government house with government money.
That economic team office was built through Godwin’s network.
Today, it remains a permanent asset of the state government.
10. I want us to be calling that building Godwin Obaseki building. I don’t see your opponent Ize-Iyamu being able to say that.
11. *In 2007, check the records, Ize-Iyamu was hiding from EFCC. He did not vote. How can somebody who didn’t vote claim that he made me. *
12. If you have to look at Godwin and his credentials, and you look at a Man (Ize-Iyamu) whose only work, by his CV, was a Student, and was rusticated for two years, he read Law, but he is not a Barrister.