Buhari and Magu
The corruption allegation against the suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission [EFCC], Ibrahim Magu, has taken new twist as no fewer than 11 senior officials of the anti-graft agency have been suspended by President Muhammadu Buhari.



National Daily gathered the agency’s Executive Secretary Olanipekun Olukoyede was among the senior officials suspended over various alleged criminal and corrupt infractions.
“All the top officials in the agency have been suspended, their offices locked, to prevent any tampering with files at the commission”, the source added.
Also read: Secret of Magu&#8217;s Dubai meeting with alleged front exposed
President Buhari suspended Ibrahim Magu, the former acting chairman of the agency last week and appointed the director of operations, Mohammed Umar Abba, to hold forte.
The source said Umar Abba survived the temporary purge, as he was found not to be a part of the suspected underhand dealings in the agency.
Also read: Buhari disowns Magu, regrets EFCC boss disappointment
The former acting chairman of the agency is facing for the second week, grilling by the presidential panel headed by Justice Ayo Salami, over financial allegations and improprieties, including money laundering.
He is facing tough questioning over allegations that he re-looted funds recovered by the commission. And that he accepted bribes to pervert cases of graft.
He is also accused of mismanagement of recovered assets by the EFCC.
Among the issues Magu is helping the panel to resolve are wide discrepancies in figures of recovered monies published by the agency.
The panel has also asked him to react to the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) report accusing him of siphoning money from the EFCC.
Also read: Update: How Magu laundered N573m in Dubai, his pointman revealed
NFIU report showed that a particular Bureau de Change, owned by Ahmed Ibrahim Shanono linked to the Acting Chairman based in Kaduna has more than 158 accounts and has been receiving huge sums of funds.