The popularity of the Chief Whip of the Ninth Senate, a former Governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, after his travail in the hands of the EFCC,  resonated on his first visit to Abia State after his resumption of activities in the National Assembly. The former governor was received by huge crowd of supporters, relations and other stakeholders in the state beyond party boundary.
National Daily gathered that Orji Kalu touched down at the Sam Mbakwe International Airport, Owerri, Imo State, at 1.30pm. The Senate Chief Whip had to complete the journey home on road to Abia State. The former governor was received by the Imo State government according to protocol. On arrival at home, he was received by APC leaders in Abia State, including some members of Abia State House of Assembly.
The home coming was the first in the past two months that Orji Kalu regained his freedom after he was released from the Kuje Correctional Centre, Abuja, on the order of the court.
It was gathered that the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youths, leaders of different social-cultural groups and thousands of supporters converged at the airport wearing branded face masks to receive the former governor on arrival.
The Senate Chief Whip had in a media interaction, expressed his joy to be home again. He observed that his constituents lost nothing as works are ongoing on the roads and other projects he influenced without obstruction.
Kalu’s convoy went through Umuahia, Abia State capital, amidst cheers from residents ion his way to Igbere, his hometown.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, had in a statement by the State Publicity Secretary, Benedict Godson, celebrated: “Today, our leader makes a triumphant entry into Abia, as a journey towards reclaiming our state begins.
“So today, after the much-failed efforts made to curse a man whom God has already blessed, that man has come to take his rightful place as our leader.”
The state party further declared: “He is the APC leader in the South East of Nigeria; he is Abia State political leader no matter the party you belong; and he is the man who everybody gives the respect as Abia original leader.”