Despite several security measures put in place by Banks, many customers have fallen prey to hackers and internet fraudsters, with millions of Naira stolen from customers’ accounts.
There are too many scammers/internet fraudsters on the prowl, and they are constantly devising new sophisticated methods to steal your money.
According to the Central Bank of Nigeria, cybercriminals resorted to taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic to defraud citizens, steal sensitive information, or gain unauthorized access into computers or mobile devices using different techniques.
Numerous hands-on tips have been emailed to customers by the banks on how to protect their accounts detail, in this article, we have summarised some of these tips.
·      Never disclose your mobile app activation code to anyone over the phone, via SMS, email, or in person. Be warned!
·      Never reveal your card number, OTP, Pin, or password to anyone over the phone, via SMS, email, or in person. Do not do this, even when the person requesting for such details claim to be from your bank’s headquarters!
·      Desist from clicking suspicious links or downloading attachments and apps from unknown sources!
·      Do not entertain unsolicited phone calls, SMS, or emails asking you personal details about yourself or asking for information about your bank accounts!
·      Again, do not fall for fraudsters’ phishing baits. They are smart and you should be ten times smarter than them!
·      Update your security software by installing the latest updates of your operating system and mobile banking app.
·      Avoid unsecured wifi!
·      Do not perform sensitive financial transactions using public wifi or networks you do not know the source. Do not let your love for free things expose you to risks!
·      Instead, use a secure connection whenever you perform online transactions.
Remember, you worked hard for your money and the economic situation in the country at the moment is hard. It would, therefore, be a shame to have your money stolen just because you were careless for a moment. This is why you must do everything possible to protect your bank accounts.