There is an emerging global fear that vaccine scientists since the outbreak of coronavirus may be endangering the lives of children by enforcing acceptance and administration of invalidated vaccines. This has been linked to the endlessly reassuring pronouncements about high-risk Covid-19 vaccines, as vaccine scientists have increased their confidence. It was indicated that underlying their overweening confidence is a paradigm that has remained essentially unchanged since vaccination’s inception, notwithstanding seismic changes in vaccine technology and vaccine schedules. A scientist issuing a warning argued that “this paradigm narrowly evaluates a given vaccine’s effects against the target illness but pays little (if any) heed to vaccinated individuals’ overall health or to overall mortality.” The scholar maintained that  adherents of the prevailing paradigm also display a surprising lack of curiosity about whether vaccines have different effects on boys versus girls or whether the sequence and combination in which vaccines are given matter.
It was noted that teachers of scientific method have pointed out that a scientific paradigm represents a “lens” that can be “recognized by the set of assumptions that an observer might not realize he or she is making, but which imply many automatic expectations and simultaneously prevent the observer from seeing the issue in any other fashion.”
The authors of a July 2020 Commentary in Lancet Infectious Diseases (titled “Vaccinology: time to change the paradigm?”) were said to have made this point, arguing that decades of vaccine research not only have failed to address important inconsistencies but also contradict many of the assumptions that drive global vaccine policies and programs. One of the authors (Danish scientist Peter Aaby) had stated in 2019: “most of you think that we know what all our vaccines are doing—we don’t.”
It was pointed out that “… they report that 17 different studies examining all-cause mortality in DTP-vaccinated children found higher mortality in girls than boys, whereas in the pre-vaccination era in West Africa, there was no excess mortality in girls at all.”