By Rahib Ali Rind
Covid-19 is a global issue which has adversely affected the social, political and economic fabrics of the globe. The pandemic caused havoc in the globalized world. It got birth from Wuhan city of China and has spreaded through out the world. More than two lacs of world’s population have lost their lives due to this pandemic virus disease. Now-a-days, United States of America(USA), United kingdom (UK), Itlay, Russia and Spain are the most affected countries at global level. After World War1(ww1) and World War2(ww2), the world has been taken a new turn and has been promoted globalization. Currently, It is considered as a undeclared World War3(ww3). On the one hand, Covid-19, it has provided impetus to trade and education disturbances ; on the other, it has caused huge loss to the peoples and the states.
 
Moreover, Covid-19 severely jolts the human life in the form of mass destruction. At least 4.3 million people are known to have been infected with the coronavirus worldwide, while at least 295,671 people have died. The figures collected by Johns Hopkins University are likely to be a great underestimate of the true scale of the pandemic. It had reached an alarming stage.
Besides it, this archaic character has further worsened the situation of education system at global level. Edication is considered as the third eye of a man. It seems pertinent here to cite of an examples of the developed  countries which have progressed by leaps and bounds after paying heed at education system. Where there is a high illiteracy rate, there is always deprivation of fundamental human rights,  political billunders and economic hurdles.  According to United Nations Children’s Fund(UNICEF) monitoring, 177 countries are currently implementing nationwide closures and 13 are implementing local closures, impacting about 73.5 percent of the world’s student population on 23 March 2020, Cambridge International.
Last but not least, it must be realized that disturbance of world trade nothing but pulling down economic pattern of globalization. World trade is the backbone of promoting globalization. The world economy in 2020 is projected to shrink by 3.2 per cent, racking up some $8.5 trillion in overall losses – wiping out nearly four years of output gains, according to a mid-year economic analysis by the United Nations. Owing to this, ban over transportation field has badly turnished the image of global trade.
All in all, Covid-19 is a burning question of today’s globe. Covid-19 has kept the world away from becoming a globalized world. Contrary to this, this problem needs immediate attention, if the world wants to become globalized world. Common man, civil society and intellectuals can play pivotal role in this regard. If serious efforts are not taken to root this issue out, it will become a threat to the globalization.
….
By Rahib Ali Rind writes from Pakistan. He is a student, BE, Chemical Engineering) QUEST, Nawabshah (Pursuing)