The indigenes of Lagos State have continued in their grudge over the political control of the state by the godfather, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, since 1999; and the subsequent imposition of governors and other principal officers in the state government from neighbouring states in the southwest. Some of the indigenes who spoke to National Daily on the condition of anonymity disclosed that they will do everything within their reach to reclaim Lagos State from the domination of Tinubu and others from the neighbouring states of Ogun and Osun, beside others. They protested that presently, the Governor of Lagos State is from Ogun State, the Deputy Governor is also from Ogun State, adding that the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) is also not an indigene of Lagos. They agitated that nothing is left for the indigenes of the state.


They further agitated that the three senators representing Lagos State in the National Assembly are also non-indigenes of Lagos. They said that the late Senator Bayo Osinowo, who represented Lagos East, and Senator Olalekan Adeola, representing Lagos West, are from Ogun State while the third Senator, representing Lagos Central, Oluremi Tinubu, is from Delta State.
The Lagos indigenes further protested that even the State House of Assembly is dominated by non-indigenes, adding that the non-indigenes are allegedly imposed by Tinubu who they identified as the godfather controlling Lagos politics and government since 1999. They said that they are more pained that people from Ogun State are imposed in state constituencies dominated by indigenes for the House of Assembly.  This, the indigenes said, they will henceforth, resist, even if it means giving the ticket to an Igbo man.
The indigenes appeared to recognize their seeming weakness. They revealed that they have started negotiations with non-indigenes from other parts of the country outside the southwest for strong alliance in forthcoming elections. They said that they do not mind an Igbo or Tiv governor, for instance, to the continuous domination by the neighbouring states from the southwest, who they agitated were being imposed by the godfather.
The indigenes could not disclose other approaches they are adopting in the struggle but maintained that they are going out for total revolt through the ballots to reclaim their land from political invasion. The process, they said has commenced, even though latent, expressing optimism that they will succeed in dethroning the godfather.