The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC),has tasked council heads in the state on the need for provision of functional and conducive offices for the electoral officials ahead of next year’s local government poll.

This call was made when the LASIEC Chairman Justice Ayotunde Phillips (rtd) along with other Commission Members, embarked on the inspection tour of the Electoral offices in various Local Government Councils of the State.

Speaking during an on-the-spot assessment of the Commission facilities, the Commission Chairman who was represented by one of the  Commissioners, Dr. Olubunmi  Omosehindemi said the inspection is imperative to ascertain the functionality of the Offices and equipment as part of the preparation for the next year Local Council poll.

He said that the inspection is also a fact-finding visit, that will enable the Commission to generate a comprehensive report,on the physical state of the offices of the Commission at the Local Government Headquarters.

The Commission according to a release from its Public Affairs officer Mr Ojo Tope, appealed to the authorities of the Local Government, who are yet to provide the Commission with conducive and accessible office accommodation to urgently do so.
“Our electoral materials and equipment are very sensitive, you are expected to provide us with secured accommodation that is congenial for operational efficiency”, he remarked.

He assures that the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission is poised to institutionalize sustainable electoral process in Lagos State.

The Commission is working tirelessly on revised guidelines that would reflect how the Commission can successfully conduct elections in the present reality of covid -19 pandemic, if the situation persists beyond this year.

“As election Managers, we are currently exchanging notes with INEC, other Countries around the world, States in Nigeria who are successfully conducting elections in covid-19 pandemic era.

 “The revised document will address the health and safety of voters and election personnel, election planning, voter education, electoral participation, voter education, Stakeholders engagement.

In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary of the Commission, Mrs. Sinatu Bandele Fadipe, stressed the need for fortified offices to ensure the safety of LASIEC personnel and equipment.

Aside, Dr. Olubunmi Omosehindemi who represented the Chairman, other Commissioners on the tour includes; Chief Mrs. Sekinat Famakinwa- Tijani, Mr, Fasu Ayedun, Prof. Olatunde Gabriel Babawale and Dr. Noah Lawal- Jinadu. Also in the entourage are the Management Staff.

The first phase of the inspection tour took the Commission members to Eti-Osa, Iru/ Victoria Island, Lagos Mainland, Yaba, Ikeja, Onigbongbo, Ojodu, Oshodi/Isolo, Amuwo Odofin, Alimosho, Igando/ Ikotun and Egbe/ Idimu.  The tour continues to other Local Government and Council Development Areas.