The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State on Monday berated the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, over his statement on Sunday relating to his mission in the Edo State governorship election, including the tales of lies by the APC leaders in the state. PDP State Publicity Secretary in Edo State, Chris Osa Nehikhare, in a statement on Monday chided the APC for accusing Governor Godwin Obaseki of appointing thugs into the state government to obstruct the governorship election holding in September. Nehikhare reminded that the APC that it was the fight against thugs and their sponsors in Edo State which pitched Governor Obaseki against Oshiomhole in a battle of wits that led to the sack of Oshiomhole as APC national chairman.
Nehikhare in the statement in Benin City declared: “Governor Obaseki’s fight from the day he took over power was the conscious demobilization of thugs, cultists and their sponsors.
“This led to the protracted battle of wits that birthed the sacking of their national chairman, fragmentation of the party into small bits and the Governor leaving the prostrate party to the comfort of The Umbrella.”
The PDP State Publicity Secretary, however, sympathized with the APC over the party’s frustration and fragmentation, observing that the APC is struggling to recover from the shattered house, adding that this is no excuse to embark on falsehood.
Nehikhare, accordingly, declared: “We understand the frustration involved in trying to put together a scattered broom but that is not an excuse to tell tall tales and fallacies!
“When will APC stop making frivolous and unsubstantiated allegations against the PDP and the State Government? Today, it’s about the Governor performing his duty of appointing his aides!
“We really do not want to respond to the infantile tantrum of APC as it is now becoming obvious to the good people of Edo state, especially, the voting public that APC has finally lost the plot and is grabbing at straws to shield it’s obvious incompetence.
“Not just the governorship election but their marble! Or how else does one respond to state statement laced with lies, childish innuendos, immature reasoning and thoughts. No wonder the party had been trending on monumental failures.”
The State Publicity Secretary stated that for APC to think that Edo State Government is giving out appointments to thugs and cultists to disrupt the elections contradicts the realities in the state where “Edo people now call and hail the governor as the Thug and Godfather Slayer,” adding that the APC falsehood is an obvious display of the party’s desperation to try to bully the people of Edo State.  “It is common knowledge that the APC is the party that is populated by known thugs and brigands in the many factions that exist within it,” he said.