There are indications that leaders of the All Progressives Congress [APC] in Lagos state are already silently canvassing for different candidates to take over the seat of late Senator Bayo Osinowo, who until his demise was representing Lagos East Senatorial District at the upper chamber.
Senator Adebayo Osinowo, the late senator representing the Lagos East Senatorial District had passed on, on Monday, 15th June 2020. His death was reported to be due to complications from COVID-19. He was buried the same day at his Ijebu-Ode residence.
Since the passing of the former lawmaker, different political gladiators have been jostling to take over his coveted seat in the red chamber.
It was that gathered that the parties have been looking for a sellable candidate, who apparently will be without blemish, considering the anti-corruption posture of Mr. President.
From the side of the APC, one of the prominent names on the list being mentioned is Adeyemi Ikuforiji, a former speaker of the Lagos House of Assembly. Aside from the fact that he was the speaker for 11 years, he also represented Epe.
There has been a debate that anyone who must occupy the seat should not be from Epe, because the division through Ikuforiji had 11 years of the top job in the state legislature. Another Epe man; Akinwunmi Ambode, the immediate past Governor of the state also served for 4 years, so they argued that for equity sake it won’t be wise to parade another Epe candidate for the Senate seat.
Another slag to the former speaker’s senatorial ambition is his impeding case with the EFCC. Ikuforiji is presently defending himself on a money laundering charge. He recently appeared before a Federal High Court in Lagos, over alleged N338.8 million money laundering charges, alongside his former Personal Assistant, Oyebode Atoyebi.
Other names being mentioned are Dr. Tola Kasali and Chief Lanre Razak. Tola Kasali, a two-time state Commissioner, is a party chieftain and also worked closely with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.
Most people in the district spoken to believe that the choice of either Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi or Dayo Bush-Alebiosu would be a plus for the zone, and an interesting contest.
A community leader in the zone who spoke on the condition of anonymity said a contest between Gbadamosi of PDP and Dayo Bush of APC would be very interesting, they are both young and experienced.
Princess Abiodun Oyefusi contested at the last senatorial election against Senator Osinowo.  Dayo Bush on his side has very intimidating credentials, a wealth of political experience, and distinguished performance while at the National Assembly.
Beyond all these, there has also been a valid argument that Kosofe should be made to continue the 4-year term of Late Senator Osinowo, who is also from Kosofe in the senate, these people are also of the opinion that someone with a rich legislative background and experience should be made to continue the term of Osinowo, not necessarily a starter who would be using a whole year to garner legislative experience. This, they argue, may not augur well for the zone and the state in general.