By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos

The face-off between the Minister of State for Labour, Employment and Productivity, Mr. Festus Keyamo, and National Assembly Joint Committee on Employment, Labour, and Productivity, has gained the attention of the immediate past youth President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN),
Engr. Daniel Kadzai.

Kadzai who spoke to our correspondent in Jos on Wednesday said, the federal lawmakers should allow the Minister to carry out his responsibility within the ambit of the law that empowered him to do so.

It would be recalled that lawmakers, on Tuesday, walked out Keyamo, following his refusal to apologise after the legislators accused him of raising his voice against them.


The incident happened at an investigative hearing organised by the National Assembly Joint Committee on Employment, Labour, and Productivity.

Keyamo was asked by the lawmakers to explain the modalities he had adopted to carry out the recruitment process and why he was not carrying out the NDE along.

However Kadzai who is also the newly elected National Youth Leader, Congress of Northern Nigeria Christians, said the ploy of the lawmakers was also to disenfranchised Christians sighting an incident in one of the north central states where out of 20 man committee appointed to select potential beneficiaries, only 4 out of the 20 members were Christians.

Kadzai wondered how can there be fairness and equity in the process of selecting the unemployed in that State.

“Why should the National Assembly always getting involved in employment. They have always used the opportunity for their own selfish gains.

“Why should they want more than the 15 per cent job slots allocated to them: why did the lawmakers insist that they must have an input in the implementation of the programme?

“Why did the lawmakers accused him for not to have privately submitted the programme on their table before he went ahead with the process?

“These aforesaid questions can be answered in two words – corruption and nepotism.

“Why are the lawmakers questioning him over the process if not that they want to grip the programme to suit themselves at the expense of the poor Nigerians, whom because of them the programme was designed?” Kadzai quarried.