The Coalition of Civil Society Organisation (CCSO),has pleaded with Chief Mike Ozekhome not to seek legal redress on the alleged disparaging report by Sahara Reporters,citing the fact that it will only further deplete the once formidable force of the civil society Organisations.

The group in a press briefing delivered by its Convener Comrade Alex Omotehinse, National President Centre for Human and Socio-economic Rights (CHSR) stressed the great attainments of the legal luminary,noting that the attack and defamation of character journey, embarked upon by Sahara Reporters remain an unsubstantiated,misguided battle.

The coalition also decried in strong terms the recent publication tagged,”Why Ozekhome wants Magu dead”,while pleading that the legal luminary stay actions in pursuit to get justice for the wrongs done to him noting that Ozekhome had at several instances stood for what is right,especially in Magu’s case too.

“Mike Ozekhome had always decried the continued stay in office by Magu after his two-time rejection by the Senate under section 2(3) of the EFCC Act.

He argued that the selective anti-corruption fight has since been reduced to Trafalgar Square circus and calls for strategic fight against corruption,not media trial and gallery play;or government’s policy of “Name and shame” Nigerians who have neither been arraigned,tried nor convicted.

“On occasions too numerous to name,Chief Mike Ozekhome has advised and insisted that Lawyers must use the legal profession for development in other to build strong institutions,and Not strong men or strong women.

“How can such a man with such sterling qualities and pro-masses struggles be termed corrupt.”

The coalition which comprises of eight civil society groups opined that the two individuals in question, aside their individual callings are full fledged human rights campaigners, although Chief Ozekhome’s pedigree towers far higher than that of SaharaReporters publisher,Comrade Omoyele Sowore.
Adding that so much respect should be accorded the people’s reverred advocate Chief Mike Ozekhome SAN, having paid his dues in the evolution of an egalitarian society.

” We hereby use this medium to earnestly appeal to our senior consistent Comrade,Chief Mike Ozekhome,SAN,not to be distracted by these write-up to blackmail him.It should be regarded as an error.

“Ozekhome should please not institute any action for defamation in court against Sahara Reporters. Rather,he should see the publication as part of the challenges faced by a tested leader like him,and most especially social critics of his unmatchable pedigree.

“This is more so as none of the allegations is factual or can ever be proved against this distinguished Pan-Nigerian Statesman. Such challenges make a man stronger than ever before ” CCSO affirms.

Comrade Balogun Hameed,the Coordinator Frontliner Economy and Social Research Center (FESRC),who also contributed to the call for a soft landing for Sowore’s online platform on the said report,noted that division within the ranks of the CSO’S won’t help the masses at all.

Comrade Segun Adeeko the Coordinator Know your Right for Justice,who had a feel of the EFFC’s alleged selective prosecution affirms that, “common enemy of the masses should be jointly fought,we need not break our ranks”.