By Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
The Nigerian troops of Operation Whirl Stroke have recorded tremendous successes against Kidnap kingpins with the rescue of thirty four kidnapped victims in Benue State.
The Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche said the operation was in continuation of the  aggressive clearance to rid criminal elements out of the North-Central region of the country.
According to him, following credible intelligence on the activities of a notorious kidnap syndicate operating in the general area of Igbom village in Nenzev council ward of Logo LGA, troops of Sector 2 and 4, l carried out a raid operation on a suspected kidnappers den location at Tomayin village in Logo Local Government Area of Benue State.
Enenche said troops had contact with the bandits leading to exchange of fire as troops closed in on the hideout adding that the gallant troops responded with superior fire forcing the armed bandits to fled in disarray into the bushes.
He noted that the determined troops engaged the criminal elements in hot pursuit leading to the killing of one Zwa Ikyegh identified as the ring leader and others escaped with various degrees of gun shots wounds.
He added that the successful encounter led to the rescue of 32 kidnapped victims some of whom have been in captivity for over a month.
According to him, all the rescued kidnapped victims have been reunited with their families in different communities in Logo LGA.
“Troops also recovered one AK 47 rifle, one AK 47 magazine, 6 locally made rifle, one locally made pistol and a magazine,” he stated.
Others include 22 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, 2 cartridges, 2 motorcycles and some Charms. The hideout has been equally destroyed.
In another development, troops of Sector 2 deployed at Gbise in Katsina Ala Local Government Area, LGA and Zaki Biam in Ukum LGA of Benue State responded to a distress call on another kidnapping incident at Austoma in Mbanema Council ward of Ukum LGA.
Enenche noted that  troops promptly mobilized to the scene leading to the arrest of 2 suspects.
He said the suspects are Mr Sealemun and Orduem both of whom are linked to late Terugwa Igbagwa Aka Orjondu.
The Coordinator disclosed that the troops recovered one motorcycle which the kidnappers were using for their heinous crimes.
“The suspects are currently undergoing investigation after which they will be handed over to the Nigeria Police for further necessary action. Troops have continued to dominate the area with patrols and ambushes. Normalcy has since been restored in the general area,” he said.
Meanwhile, the Military High Command congratulated the gallant troops for their professionalism and encouraged them to intensify the onslaught against the enemies of the nation.