The former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, leaves in his trail an endorsement catalogue of encomiums on Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the September 19 governorship election, including his outright condemnation and rejection of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, APC candidate.
Read Oshiomhole’s 12 significant endorsement remarks on Governor Obaseki.

God knows that Godwin comes from a large family in Benin Kingdom; he went to school, he finished his secondary school; he went to the University of Ibadan, he finished; there were no issues, he finished in flying colours.
He went to the US, he did his Masters; he came back home, started helping people to set up businesses. He helped to manage businesses; he helped to set up many banks, including several second-generation banks.
I don’t care if Obaseki betrays me at the end of the day, Obaseki allegiance should be to the people and not me.
The oath of office he is going subscribe to says that he will defend the Constitution of Nigeria; he will do everything to uplift the quality of life of Edo people. Nothing in his oath of office will include “I shall not betray my predecessor” because I have no interest to be betrayed.
Obaseki had been part of the tradition, he knows the vision; he knows the mission; he knows the target; he knows where we are; he knows the challenges and he knows how to overcome them.
He sits in the Office of the Economic Team which he built using his network of friends inside the heart of Government House without demanding one Naira.
 I know my limit; he knows his limit. Godwin Obaseki has worked for seven and half years for the people of Edo State, using his brain, creativity, quietly, not making noise.
A man like Obaseki who will not ask me to give him contracts, but will promise me, Comrade, you just do the thinking, we will create the means to actualize your thoughts.
And to his credit today, check the books of Edo State, we did not build new structures in Government House with government money. That economic team office was built through Godwin’s network. Today, it remains a permanent asset of the state government.
 I want us to be calling that building – I don’t see your opponent – Ize-Iyamu being able to say that.
 In 2007, check the records, Ize-Iyamu was hiding from EFCC. He did not vote. How can somebody who didn’t vote claim he made me.
 If you have to look at Godwin and his credentials, and you look at a man whose only work, by his CV, was a student, and was rusticated for two years, he read law, but he is not barrister.

Interesting, these were the campaign statements of Oshiomhole in the 2016 governorship election. In 2020, the entire process has been subverted. Oshiomhole is working from the opposite camp in the 2020 governorship election on the side of Ize-Iyamu. Invariably, the only thing that may have changed in the catalogue of encomiums on Governor Obaseki is Oshiomhole, himself; all other attributes remain constant.
Invariably, Oshiomhole may be falling into political suicide, and could make the APC campaign for the Edo governorship election complicated in marketing Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the party’s candidate.
Ize-Iyamu has, however, attempted an image laundry, saying that all the Oshiomhole said about him in the past did not come from his heart. However, the words have gone forth, people have assimilated the words; Ize-Iyamu also did not challenge either the words or Oshiomhole from whom the words proceeded. Edo people are furiously waiting for the APC campaign team to hear what the APC members will tell them this time, especially, Oshiomhole. They are on red alert against deceit, dishonesty, and insincerity.