Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has issued a stern warning to the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, a Fulani socio-cultural association, to desist from deploying its ‘Miyetti Allah Vigilante’ security outfit to the state. National Daily gathered that Ortom in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, cautioned that the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore that Benue State government is collaborating with the security apparatuses of the federal government, as well as an established vigilante group operating in the various local governments and wards across the state. The governor called for the arrest of the leaders of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore to stem the tide of killings in Nigeria.
The statement read in part: “As much as we do not have any problem with Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore floating a security outfit in other states, it is important to say that such a vigilante group WILL NOT OPERATE IN BENUE STATE. Miyetti Allah has no constitutional right to establish a nationwide security outfit.
“Benue does not need the Miyetti Allah vigilante. The State Government is working with conventional security forces and has already established a vigilante group at the state, local government and ward levels.
“This is evident in the ongoing recruitment of personnel for Community Policing who will soon be trained as recommended by Inspector General of Police.
“The idea of running a nationwide vigilante group is a mere strategy by the Fulani socio-cultural organization to elevate their nefarious and inhuman activities to another level. They have repeatedly claimed responsibility for the killing of thousands of children, women and other vulnerable people in different states, yet, members of the group walk freely in Abuja and hold press conferences threatening to unleash terror on the people of this country.
“We once more call for the arrest and prosecution of officials of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, to end the spate of crime in the country.
“We urge the Federal Government to stop looking elsewhere for bandits who have been killing innocent Nigerians. Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore are coordinators of banditry in the country, and officials of the group reside in Abuja.”