The configuration of the governorship race for the successor of Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State whose tenure ends in 2022 is becoming twisted with the political under current from the former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Professor Charles Soludo, joining the 2021 gubernatorial contest in the state. The former CBN Governor has overtime been reaching out to as many individuals as possible indiscriminately, extending goodwill messages during national festivals or public holidays; thus, expanding the frontiers of his personality and influence.
Prof. Soludo may be making strong mark in joining the 2021 governorship race with his administrative experience and management legacy in the governorship race involving over 15 aspirants.
 
The strong aspirants in the 2021 governorship contest are found to be contesting on the platform of the big party – the ruling All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and the All Progressives Congress (APC). There are several other aspirants who are strong at individual level but not members of the big political parties.
The prominent aspirant in the APC, Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, was a brief governor of the state. However, there few other aspirants in the APC. In the PDP, Senator Uche Ekwunife, representing Anambra Central Senatorial district in the National Assembly, a former Minister, Osita Chidoka, are leading other aspirants for the party’s governorship ticket.
Charles Soludo has been a close ally of Governor Obiano. He supported the incumbent governor in his re-election battle and has been behind him since his second tenure.
Prof. Charles Soludo was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari into an 8-member Economic Advisory Council in 2019. The Council reports directly to the President.
Meanwhile, details of Prof. Soludo’s stake in the aspiration for the 2021 Anambra governorship election would be disclosed when he officially declares for the governorship contest.
The incumbent governor, Willie Obiano, has insisted that his successor would come from Anambra south, which is the Onitsha axis, in line with the rotation compact of the Anambra political elite.