Engineer David famuyiwa,the Executive  Chairman of Agbado Oke Odo Local Development Council Area,has charged the newly inaugurated Vice Chairman and Secretary to the LCDA,to bring their wealth of experience to bear in ensuring even development of the community,while rededicating commitment to advancement of the people’s wellbeing in the community.
Engr. Famuyiwa note that the cooperation of all the newly inaugurated is of utmost importance, to uplift the LCDA beyond expectations of many.

It will be recalled that few weeks back,precisely on the 30th day of June,Governor Babajide Sanwoolu inaugurated Engr.Famuyiwa as the Executive Chairman of the LCDA.

He said:”This is my first official address in the capacity as the Executive Chairman of this LCDA following the demise of the late Chairman Dr. Augustine Arogundade and the Secretary to the local government Alhaja Ayilara, I am determined to reposition this LCDA for the good of the people and make it the envy of others across the state.

We are seated here today for the swearing-in of our brand new Vice Chairman,Secretary to the LCDA (SLG), Chairman Revenue Committee.

Just as it was of utmost importance that we have an Executive Chairman,it is equally important that we fill the two vacant positions to keep the business of government running.


“I expect no less from you than to bring your knowledge and wealth of experience to bear in making contributions to the efforts of this administration to uplift this LCDA.

Famuyiwa however,gave a hint of what his focus will be going forward,as it pertains governance at the grassroots;a concerted rejig of the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) as well as blockage of leakages,prompt monitoring of on-going projects and award of new ones.

“Streamlining of cost of governance to free up funds for capital projects of direct benefits to the people and to inculcate in them the need to own available basic amenities.


He added that while the COVID-19 scourge persist, people in Agbado Oke Odo should be responsible in adhering to all precautionary measures,and also avoid any form of social gatherings that may further encourage its spread.


The newly inaugurated Vice Chairman Mr James Akinwunmi Odeyemi in a chat with newsmen, pledged full cooperation with the council boss,citing his poise to support even development across the locality.

Odeyemi a microbiologist,teacher and grassroot politician of 30 years standing had prior to his inauguration been the Ward B Chairman in Agbado Oke Odo.

According to Odeyemi,he was preferred amongst many others for having contributed immensely to the socio-political development of Agbado Oke Odo at the ward level.

Having taken the oath of office as administered by the council legal officer, Barrister G.O.K Ajibola,he was duly inaugurated by the council boss.

Also the new council secretary, Mr Olasunkanmi Taiwo who had to come on board to fill the vacuum created by the sudden demise of former SLG,Alhaja Ayilara, was inaugurated too.