Temi Otedola, a fashionista and owner of JTO, has expressed joy as she accepts the honours of becoming an ambassador of Women At Risk International Foundation (WARIF).

She tweeted, “We continue the work! I’m so honoured to announce my role as the ambassador of @warif_ng. I have been so inspired by the work that they do to fight against the huge issue of rape in Nigeria. I continue to make it my mission to condemn gender-based violence in our country”

The foundation has been one of a kind in the fight against rape. One of their star cases is the story of Brenda. Brenda is a WARIF Survivor whose touching story  highlights the hurt & shame endured by women & girls who are being sexually harassed and abused all over our nation today. Women who are silenced by the fear, shame and stigma of their abuse.

You can watch the story via this link :
 https://twitter.com/WARIF_NG/status/954313551929331713?s=09

WARIF director says they are, “committed to breaking down the wall of silence by creating a safe haven at the WARIF Centre where all women can receive free medical care, counselling, shelter and legal aid with educating & empowering the vulnerable – school children & women in less privileged rural areas and providing  preventive interventions to end gender based violence in all our communities”.

Temi is the daughter to Nigerian businessman, philanthropist, and former chairman of Forte Oil PLC, an importer of fuel products — Femi Otedola.
Her father is the founder of Zenon Petroleum and Gas Ltd, and the owner of a number of other businesses across shipping, real estate and finance.

“JTO is far from just a fashion blog” says her blogsite. Founded in 2014 by Temi Otedola, Temi was motivated to start blogging by her own personal inspirations. Temi has used JTO as a platform to express her adventures through the arenas of fashion, art, travel and photography. As a Nigerian living and studying in London, Temi fuses her love for both Africa and the West in her style. Temi enjoys travelling and is away on an adventure when she can spare the time, her top destinations including Paris, New York and Milan.