Internet remembers John Okeikhan Edobor, the Zenith bank worker and Ivie’s ex-husband who was dragged to court in a domestic abuse lawsuit for permanently breaking his wife’s leg.

The run-away abuser is currently begging for forgiveness after his wife reportedly wrote the U.S embassy to revoke his Visa, which they did.

As recalled, his wife who celebrated one year anniversary of the incident recently, revealed that John ran to United States with his mistress.

John Okeikhan Edobor who has been stripped of everything including his job, visa and his mistress eventually abandoning him, reached out to a blogger, and here’s the open letter he wrote:

Dear All,
This may come as a surprise but I’m writing this because I need help.

My name is John Okeikhan Edobor former husband to Ivie. I have offended my wife and children dearly. The repacaution of my actions is catching up with me thus my being in hiding since March in the United States. Please tell her I’m sorry and I am ready to make amends to right all my wrongs.

In my defence I had said a lot of things but that was to take the attention off what I did. I’m now living as a fugitive. I don’t know what pushed me this far. Ivie gave me all the time in the world to make amends but my pride wouldn’t let me. I was so blinded by my relationship with my then mistress I lost sight of the diamond I had. Yes we had our differences but no woman would have taken all the pain Ivie went through because of me. She has raised my 3 daughters singlehandedly. I know my first daughter should be graduating from primary school now and I cannot be there to share in the joy.

I have lost my job, my wife and my children because of my act of violence. Ivie supported my family and I for a long time hence my wanting her back. When she wouldn’t come back to me and insisted on a divorce my anger led me to lay ambush and attack her that night but truly I didn’t expect the injury to be so bad I only wanted to scare her. I was so infuriated I got angry and struck her repeatedly on the leg.
Please help me plead with her. I was so afraid of going to jail and my mistress Orezime Jockey of Mamaray global assisted me to relocate to the United States. I thought I was home free but Ivie wrote to the embassy telling them about the case on ground and how I jumped bail and my visa has been revoked. My life is he’ll now as I am now a fugitive living in hiding with no job or source of income.

Please plead with Ivie for me to drop the charges in criminal court and allow our families settle us amicably.

National Daily would love to hear your response to this. Please leave comments, thanks.