By Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba

Wife of the Governor of Edo state, Her Excellency Betsy Obaseki has attributed the continued support of the people of Edo State for the Obaseki administration to the clamour for good governance which is in the heart of every Nigerian.

Betsy Obaseki who said this when the Deputy National Women Leader of the PDP, Hajia Hadizat Umoru and the State Woman Leader of the PDP, Deaconess Lindsay Tes-Sorae paid her a courtesy visit at the Edo State Government House also shared the Governor’s passion for the development of Edo State on Wednesday.


Her Excellency said the passion hunger and desire in the heart of every politician is to see Edo state developed, progress and compete with Lagos State. She urged that this passion should transcend party platforms adding that this accounts for the emergence of the one big family currently in Edo state.

Her Excellency said she is convinced that God wants to do a marvellous thing in Nigeria and that must be great.

She said we are all Nigerians, we must love our country, we must want our country to be great appealing that we all forget about our own personal gains and think of the common good.

The Edo state First Lady said the smart thing to do is to read the handwriting on the wall and do what we need to do, to save our country and that is to use the money and wealth and resources God has given to us to make the life of everyone better.

Earlier, the PDP Deputy National Woman leader Hajia Hadizat Umoru said they were at the government House to congratulate her and to be properly introduced to the other women in the party. “The purpose of our visit, is first and foremost is to congratulate you and your teaming supporters for joining the party. Secondly, to appeal to you that PDP women are anxious to meet with the women that came with you, because we know when we get the women, we have already gotten their husbands and their children

In her address PDP State Women Leader Deaconess Lindsay Tes-sorae said “we just came to heartily  welcome you to the fold and family of PDP. And also, to celebrate with you because it was not easy. And also for you to give us the time to bring in our women cause they’ve already started working, networking because the time is short.