The People Democratic Party (PDP) has scolded the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, over leading his party to raise false alarm on the protest and rejection of his running mate, Gani Audu, by his own people in Agbede in Etsako West Local Government Area, Edo State, on Sunday. The people had taken to the  streets  to a protest the choice of Audu as the running mate of Ize-Iyamu by the APC after they had declared him a persona non grata in the town because of his poor performance as chairman of the local government area, in addition to his denying the constituency representation at the Edo State House of Assembly after he was elected by the people but refused to present himself to be sworn into office.
PDP State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, in a statement, declared: “strangely, the All Progressives Congress (APC) woke up on the wrong side of the bed, days after the widely reported incident, to accuse the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of sponsoring the Agbede protest.
“We wish to state that the PDP did not sponsor the protest. For emphasis, we don’t sponsor protests. “The claim by APC that the protest was sponsored by our party, the PDP is a figment of their imagination.
“It is established fact that Gani Audu performed woefully as local government chairman, amongst other allegations leveled against him by his kinsmen, therefore, the youths must be commended for the courage they displayed in expressing their discontent over Audu’s failings and betrayal of the trust reposed in him by his people who elected him to deliver the dividends of democracy.”
The PDP maintained that the actions of the youths further give insight into what awaits non-performing elected officials in the near future. “Democracy must put food at the table of the people, fix weak infrastructure, provide quality education and improved health care amongst others, as Governor Godwin Obaseki has diligently done in the last three years and seven months.
“Elected and unelected officials alike must brace up to provide purposive leadership and this should be addressed by the sinking APC in order to avert the treatment meted on Gani Audu in Agbede in future,” the Edo PDP State Publicity Secretary declared. He highlighted a slogan of “Resetting Edo for a better and brighter tomorrow.”