Mercedes-Benz GLS, 2019, smaragdgrün 

Mercedes-Benz GLS, 2019, emerald green
        
 




Weststar Associates, owners of the Mercedes-Benz brand franchise in Nigeria has introduced the all-new Mercedes-Benz GLS, the brand’s largest and most luxurious SUV into the Nigerian market.
Speaking on the all-new GLS, Mr. Mirko Plath, CEO, Weststar Associates Limited commented; “The Mercedes-Benz GLS is a superstar in the SUV segment, and we are proud to unveil the 2020 edition to our customers here in Nigeria. With highlights like EQ Boost, the updated 4MATIC all-wheel drive and Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX). We are certainly in for a treat!”
The all-new GLS stands out with highlights like EQ Boost, an all-new 4MATIC that ensures great agility on the road and strong performance off the beaten track, and key comfort features like; the Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX), electrically adjustable seats throughout as standard and a generous amount of space especially in the second row.
The exterior of the all-new GLS is luxurious and larger than life. It comes with a more superior presence in comparison to its predecessor, thanks to a larger wheelbase at 3135 mm. The impressive proportions and the long bonnet also underscore the power and presence of the new GLS.
Inside the all-new GLS elegant aesthetics are highlighted with leather appointments as standard. The instrument cluster and media display (2 x 12.3-inch as standard), are housed behind a shared continuous glass surface to form a large free-standing screen.
There is a touchpad in the center console as a further means of controlling many vehicle functions. The ambient lighting impressively illuminates the dashboard, with optical fibers coursing throughout the cockpit. The four rectangular air vents are prominently embedded in the trim element. As a typical feature of off-roaders, there are two prominent grab handles on the center console trimmed with ARTICO man-made leather. There is also a new sport steering wheel with a striking, sculptured spoke design.
Another key highlight in the all-new GLS is the latest generation of the MBUX infotainment system. Some of the upgrades in the new MBUX system include the MBUX Interior Assistant: intuitive support, Augmented reality: additional navigation assistance, and a further advanced “Hey Mercedes” voice control system.
The high standards of the new Mercedes-Benz GLS are evident in its engine line up. The baseline GLS 450 features a new electrified in-line six-cylinder petrol engine with 48-volt on-board electrical system and integrated starter-generator.

This engine has a displacement of about four liters and produces an output of 270 kW (367 hp) and 500 Nm of torque, with another 250 Nm of torque and 16 kW/22 hp of additional output temporarily on tap via EQ Boost.
In all variants of the new GLS, power is transmitted by the 9G-TRONIC automatic transmission. The broad ratio spread of gears one to nine allows a clearly perceptible reduction in engine speed and is a decisive factor behind the high level of energy efficiency and ride comfort.
All versions of the new GLS are for the first time equipped with fully variable all-wheel drive (torque on demand, TonD), which regulates the torque split between the front and rear axle from 0-100 % depending on the selected drive mode. With the optional Off-Road Engineering Package, a likewise fully variable all-wheel-drive system with low and high range is available. This makes the GLS more off-road capable than ever.