League of Imams, in the Lagos State House of Assembly have tasked the entire Muslim Community in the state to celebrate the Eid-ul – Adha festival in line with the dictates of the Holy Prophet Mohammad (SAW), while adhering to safety standards to curtail spread of COVID-19 .

The body felicitates with muslims globally on the occasion of the Year 2020  (1441 A.H.) sacrificial celebration,imploring faithful
to have a reflection on the significance of the season.

“As we know, Prophet Ibrahim’s (A.S.)  demonstration of humanity, sacrifice, total submissiveness and above all piety readily comes to mind.

These virtues are expected to be our golden rules as Muslims.
 Having submitted to sacrifice of his only son, Ismail (ASWS) Allah miraculously came to Ibrahim’s aid and replaced Ismail with a ram.
This historic background should exemplify our individual and collective will that must be followed as laid down by the Prophet of Allah, Mohammad ( SAW).
Let us remember, the flesh and the blood of the sacrificial animals do not reach Allah but our piety does”. Said the League of Imams.

They added that, the faithful should also endeavour to make the fear of Allah their guiding principle as they slaughter the animals,adding that animals are to be killed and shared according to the sunnah of the messenger of Allah.

“We also enjoin you to adhere strictly to safety protocols as directed by the government to contain the further spread of the Corona Virus pandemic.

“Traditionally, Islam enjoins cleanliness which should be put into use even beyond the pandemic.
 According to them,Muslims are expected to show exemplary leadership in their daily conducts and  government’s directive on social distancing should be diligently maintained and observed.
 “We pray Allah forgive those that are dead amongst us and also heal those who are currently encountering one ailments or another.

“Once again, we wish you a happy Eid celebration and many more years in good health and sound provisions,” the statement read.