BTC scammers were on a rampage on Twitter late Wednesday, as many top personalities, had their accounts tweeting about a BTC giveaway.
Later, it became obvious that the breach was much more serious when leading brands and famous people including, Barack Obama, Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Kanye West, and Uber, tweeted that they would double your bitcoin.
However, Cameron Winklevoss, co-founder of the world’s leading crypto exchange Gemini, disclosed that the scammers were only able to make away with “a paltry sum,” though he wondered if there were underlying reasons for the attack.
The scammers deceive their intended victims by offering one or all of the following: no taxes, high profits, little effort, and no risk. It’s thus projected by Whale alert that these fraudsters could gain about $50 million dollars before the end of 2020.
Meanwhile, following a huge amount of breaches on many top global brands, having their Twitter accounts tweeting about a BTC giveaway, Tron founder, Justin Sun has put a bounty on those responsible for the attacks.
In a recent interview with Cointelegraph, Tron’s founder, Justin Sun disclosed he was ready to give $1 million to the person or persons responsible for tracking down the hackers. He added by saying;
“We are working closely with Twitter to resolve this issue immediately and return our accounts to normal. We are always vigilant in the handling of our accounts; operating safely and responsibly — taking the security of our accounts to the highest standards possible. This only further illuminates the urgent need for our society to adopt decentralized, trustless software and services.”
Data obtained from Whale alert, an advanced crypto tracker firm revealed, “the Giveaway scammers pulled off the hack of the year, but only managed to make $58,000 USD so far. Hopefully, the community will take them more seriously now.”
Meanwhile, the price of bitcoin remains largely unaffected by the news of the hack, as it is currently still stuck at around $9,200.