Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs has made a broadcast that he has tested positive to coronavirus. The minister on his official twitter handle @Godfrey Onyema revealed that he did his fourth coronavirus test when he started noticing irritation on his throat and the result was unfortunately positive.
Onyema accepted his fate, admitting that such is life; you win some, lose some. The minister subsequently announced that he was on his way to isolation centre for medical attention.
The Foreign Affairs Minister on his twitter handle @Godfrey Onyema wrote: “Did my fourth Covid-19 test yesterday at the first sign of a throat irritation and unfortunately this time it came back positive. That is life!  Win some lose some. Heading for isolation in a health facility and praying for the best.”
Onyema has accordingly joined the league of top government officials and high-profile political actors who have tested positive to the coronavirus infection.
The late Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari, had tested  positive to coronavirus and died of the infection.
Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State was on the frontline of top government officials to have tested positive to coronavirus after his contact with the son of Atiku Abubakar who had tested positive to coronavirus.  Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State subsequently made broadcast that he has tested positive to coronavirus.
Former Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, was said to have tested positive to coronavirus virus and died of the infection. Two lawmakers in Lagos – Senator Osinowo, a member of the National Assembly, and Hon. Tunde Braimoh of the Lagos State House of Assembly, recently died of coronavirus.
Some other governors had tested positive to coronavirus and recovered from it, namely, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, among others.
High Chief Raymond Dokpesi and his family also tested positive to coronavirus, went into isolation and recovered.