The ousted national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, has continued to incur the wrath of the people of Edo State with his de-constructive attacks on incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki in the electioneering campaign for the September 19 governorship election. National Daily survey found that the more Oshiomhole speaks evil about Governor Obaseki, the more the Edo people hate him, increase their support for Obaseki and dislike the APC candidate sponsored by Oshiomhole, Ize-Iyamu. The people of Edo State, according to findings have consigned the former APC national chairman to the bin of crass irresponsibility.
A notable counter-productivity of Oshiomhole’s caustic criticism of incumbent Governor Obaseki is that his words make the people love Obaseki the more and raise their consciousness to voluntarily embark on campaign and mobilization of support for Obaseki. Oshiomhole further make the people of Edo develop subtle hatred for Ize-Iyamu than would have ordinarily not been the case if the former chairman’s intermediary warfare did not exist in the campaign.
National Daily survey on a statement by Oshiomhole to damage incumbent Governor Obaseki found that the people rather turned against the former chairman with strong warning that Oshiomhole is still kneeling begging round the state for forgiveness on similar damage he did to Ize-Iyamu in 2016.
When Oshiomhole was reported to have said at a campaign rally:  “Obaseki is a con man, I can say it before Edo people”, these are what the people of Edo State said in response on the social media platform:
“Edo people be warned about this man, whenever you see a man without shame, please do not have anything to do with him. Please reject him and his godfatherism. Edo people be warned!”
“He don start to dey talk (has started talking) rubbish again, another election don come na (has come now it’s) Obaseki this year, it was Ize-Iyamu last year. Senseless man who does not know that the more you open your mouth and speak, the more Edo people hate you.”
“Useless Oshiomhole, the example of the people that destroyed Nigeria for their selfish gain. He talks from both sides of his mouth.”
“Senseless human being, short devil, you created issues in salary scale when were labour leader, your generation will not know peace.”
“Now Osha ugly is using the power of the press and social media to rubbish same thief he brought into Edo, just to bring another thief who is loyal to him. Edo people wise up o!”
“I hope we all have our PVC to ensure this short man doesn’t conveniently make a nuisance of our intelligence.”
“Mr. Oshiomhole, godfather won’t work in the south-south and middle belt. So, please don’t give yourself nightmare.”
“You are the number one con man. I will weep for Edo people if they ever listen to you, a (rambler), again.”
“Just imagine Ize-Iyamu Oshiomhole called a thief three years ago sitting, and Oshiomhole kneeling begging for forgiveness; what a shame!”
“Why can’t Oshiomhole allow Ize-Iyamu to speak for himself…”
The fireworks for the Edo governorship election is on but Oshiomhole appears to be provoking the people of Edo State in participating in the fireworks rather than being spectators as the parties prove themselves.  Perhaps, Oshiomhole may curtail further humiliation and minimize deepening hatred if he refrains from personality clash and focus on issues of change in the state.