Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has slammed the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (PC), Adams Oshiomhole, over his ambition to pillage the resources of Edo State and entrench himself as the godfather of Edo politics. The Governor stated that Oshiomhole is against him because he did not allow the former APC chairman to use him to enthrone himself as godfather in Edo State. Governor Obaseki also stated that Oshiomhole plotted to use him as a stooge to loot the treasury of the state.
The Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, speaking on behalf of his principal said that Oshiomhole supported Obaseki in 2016 with a hidden agenda and not in the interest of the people of Edo State.
National Daily gathered that Osagie declared: “In 2016 when Oshiomhole nominated and supported Obaseki, his hidden motive was to use Governor Obaseki who he thought would be a pawn in his game to defraud Edo people and enthrone himself as the ultimate godfather of Edo politics at the expense of the will and wishes of Edo people.
“However, Obaseki’s refusal to mortgage the interest of the majority of Edo people for the satisfaction of Oshiomhole and his handful of greedy followers is the cause of Oshiomhole’s bitterness which has led him to bury himself in pursuit of an innocent governor who is trying to do the right thing for his people.”
Oshiomhole had opted for Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as APC governorship candidate for the Edo State election after his fallout with incumbent Governor Obaseki.
Oshiomhole on Sunday declared his mission to unseat Obaseki and retrieve Edo to APC. He regretted his support for Obaseki in 2016.
National Daily had on Sunday reported that Oshiomhole on his twitter handle declared: “I have made a mistake by supporting a man who has no vision for my people. So, I want to correct my mistakes by making sure a servant of God, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, is elected as governor and kick the snake out of the government house.
“From now till September 19, I am here in Edo State because a political lion that I am, I am not scared of anything.
“Now, the snake that enters our family home, God has driven the snake to where he belongs.
“I have come home to join you and start the process of reclaiming the house back to the family of APC. So, now I have only one mission and I know it is our common mission: to bring Edo back to the part of sustainable development.”