Paul Pogba could return to starting line-up after three months
        
 








The transfer of the Paul Pogba away from Old Trafford has dominated the transfer speculations in recent times National Daily can confirm.
The French international who captained France to victory at the FIFA Under-23 World Cup in 2013 and who an integral member of the Les Bleus winning team at the recent World cup has done relatively little to negate the speculations especially when he revealed last summer of his desires to seek a new challenge.
Meanwhile, all the transfer speculations are likely to be put to rest following the latest development at the Manchester club who seem to have rediscover their mojo when they extended their unbeaten run to 17 matches across all competitions and 23 in their away games after beating Aston Villa 3 – 0 in their EPL encounter on Thursday night.
Following United’s victory at Villa Park, Paul Pogba and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer were both asked about the midfielder’s future – and their responses will give the Red Devils fans relishing memory
Pogba who has forged an enviable midfield partnership with Bruno Fernandes since the restart of football used the occasion of their triumph over the Claret & Blue Army to register his first goal for the season and finally seem to be happy at Old Trafford.
The French international seems to be at home with his United team mates after his return from injury and back into action.  This no doubt has given the United fans the reasons to believe that he will remain at Old Trafford beyond his current contract.
Pogba, asked about his future on Thursday night after his game against Aston Villa, was quick to point out that he was focused on helping his team achieve silverware double National Daily gathered.
“Right now, I’ve been injured for a very long time, I focused on myself to get back and help the team as much as I can,” the 27-year-old told Sky Sports.
“We have two goals, to go for the Europa League and FA Cup, we focus on that.”
Pogba also did not fail to express his impression about Manchester United.
“It’s a big club, we want to keep the level up always, the performance today and the past few weeks are very good and they are the standard of Manchester United.
“We didn’t win the Premier League – that’s the goal.
“Obviously we have to keep working, there’s a lot to do.”
Meanwhile, United definitely have another goal outside Pogba’s aforementioned dual goals, namely ensuring that a Champions League football is back at Old Trafford next season which can be achieved either by finishing at the top four or by winning the Europa League trophy.
Solskjaer will be delighted to have Pogba settled at Old Trafford
Achieving the above could be key in defining Pogba’s next destination.
And Ole Gunnar Solskjaer who is almost confident that the French international will remain at Old Trafford will be delighted to have him retain in his recently exciting squad National Daily can further confirm.
Speaking after the game at Villa Park, Solskjaer expressed his position on Pogba
“We still have a contract with Paul. He is a fantastic person, fantastic player – one of the best midfielders in the world,”
“It’s a different team to the one he left when he was injured. Everything is miles better in that dressing room.”