The Police have revealed the arrest of a 24-year-old man, Badmus Folarin, for burning the buttocks of a 10-year- old boy, Sunday David, with hot knife for licking a tin of tea.
The suspect, Folarin, had put the knife in burning fire to get hot which he later used to burn the buttocks of the teenager for taking some contents tea from the container kept by mother of Folarin. The Police revealed that the incident occurred in Ogun State.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Ogun State Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement, indicated that the suspect resided on Elegushi Street, Owode-Yewa, Yewa South Local Government Area, Ogun State
The PPRO said Folarin was arrested for maltreating the boy who lives with his family.
Oyeyemi narrated that the suspect was arrested after the DPO Owode Egbado division, Olabisi Elebutte, received distress call from a neighbour who was worried by the maltreatment of the teenage boy.
The PPRO said that while the neighbour was reporting the incident on the telephone, they could hear the sorrowful cry of a boy from the scene of torture in the neighbourhood at No 12 Elegushi Street, Owode-Yewa. He said the DPO immediately deployed the patrol team to the scene where the young boy was seen lying down helplessly with serious injuries.
According to the Police, “On enquiry, it was discovered that the suspect put a knife on fire and when the knife was hot and red, he applied it to the buttocks of the boy, thereby, inflicting second degree injuries on the innocent boy.
“During interrogation, the suspect alleged that the victim, who is living with the family, opened a tin of Milo belonging to the suspect’s mother and licked from it.”
Oyeyemi explained that the victim was rushed to a private hospital by the police, while the suspect was arrested and detained.
He said the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and possible prosecution.