The hope of Chelsea landing the German sensation Kai Havertz appears brighter.
Reports just reaching National Daily reveal that Kai Havertz has agreed with Bayer Leverkusen that he can depart this summer.
However, it is gathered that the Borussia Dortmund will continue to seek a transfer fee in the region of £90million for the Bundesliga’s brightest homegrown young star.
It is understood that most European giants like Chelsea, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid are all keen on the 21-year-old German international, who has enjoyed an outstanding campaign.
Kai Havertz is one of the few latest football revelations this season
Real Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane has not hidden his admiration for Havertz, who likes to operate as a No.10 but has been used both as a No.9 and in a deeper central midfield role by Leverkusen boss Peter Bosz this season.
Similarly, Bayern Munich hierarchy is believed to be long-time admirers of a player who has scored 17 times this term.
Meanwhile, transfer development reveals that both Madrid and Bayern would prefer to wait until 2021 to finalise a deal, with the former needing to raise funds amid the redevelopment of the Bernabeu and the latter having spent big on Leroy Sane.
Bayern CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge has revealed their financial position which suggests that a potential big transfer away from the Bundesliga champion like Thiago Alcantara or David Alaba may need have materialized to make any major transfer.
The above development therefore leaves Chelsea in pole position and fans at Stamford Bridge are relishing the moment.
Interestingly for Chelsea, while they are keen to do a deal at closer to £70million, their position is strengthened by Havertz’s desire to test himself at a higher level now.
Sadly, Leverkusen finishing fifth in the Bundesliga this season has taken them out of Champions League football next term except they win the Europa League next month.
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that Leverkusen sporting director Rudi Voller is still hopeful that Havertz who is one the best players in Bayer’s history will remain at the BayArena for at least one more year, but he will however be allowed to leave provided there is a right offer for him
Speaking to Bild last week, Voller maintained: “As of now, he is our player.
“We have our ideas, we know what he can do. I personally hope that he stays one more year.
“We have an agreement: if it works, he can go this summer.”