For keen followers of the chequered tenure of the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, the new turn of events may not come as a surprise as Magu’s tenure has continued to generate controversies.
According to reports, operatives of the DSS had accosted Magu on Monday while he was about driving out of the Wuse II Abuja annex office of the EFCC, fueling the rumours that he has been arrested by the DSS.
Although the Department of State Services (DSS), had since denied the report claiming that it arrested the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu for money laundering and other offences on Monday, the way and manner he was accosted to attend the  presidential panel speaks volume.
Magu’s problems was not just with the Senate, as he has had a number of spats with the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who is supposed to be his supervising minister.
The feud between the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), and Ibrahim Magu, took a new turn for the worse as the AGF on Wednesday alleged that Magu’s “ignoble role” was what led to the suspension of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) from the Egmont Group.
This development is coming as Magu and Malami are still locked in bitter disagreement over non-release of requested corruption case files. Magu had despite repeated requests by the AGF declined to send over case files resulting in heated public exchanges, a situation which some say merely reflects a deeper issue.
Many will read these new comments by the AGF as further confirmation of his widely speculated long-held sentiments against the EFCC boss, and perhaps the clearest sign yet of a festering long-drawn fundamental disagreement.
A former Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun had queried Magu on the figures the EFCC had been quoting in the media as monies recovered by it.
In a February 9, 2018 letter, Adeosun wrote to Magu: “This is to notify you of the records of cash asset recoveries in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) from May 2015 till date based on information available to the office of the Accountant General of the Federation (attached),” the letter read.
In what many say may have been the final onslaught against Magu that led to the events of today, July 6, 2020, the Attorney General, Malami, in a damning report, accused Magu of several infractions, 22 in number, emphatically recommending his sack to President Muhammadu Buhari, who has solidly insisted on Magu’s stay in office.
Magu has been in acting capacity since the National Assembly twice refused to confirm his nomination to head the anti-graft agency after the president sent his name to the federal lawmakers on both ocassions.
The AGF, among other things, accused Magu of insubordination, and discrepancies in the figures of funds reportedly recovered by the EFCC.
He was also accused of disposing of assets, especially buildings seized from corrupt politicians and others, without approval, or knowledge of the AGF’s office, which is the supervisory ministry of the EFCC.