The United States (U.S) has adopted unconfirmed but perceived cases of coronavirus in the records of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC, accordingly, declared this week that the Centre would, henceforth, start including “probable” coronavirus cases in its figures of COVID-19 cases in America.
CDC in a statement, making reference to a statement by the Council for State and Territorial Epidemiologists, recommending ‘probable’ figures in its coronavirus statistics, indicated that the totals of coronavirus cases in the US from the Center  as at Tuesday included “both confirmed and probable cases and deaths.”
The Center defined Probable cases as anecdotally matching the symptoms of COVID-19 but lacking an actual test confirming the disease in a patient, a phenomenon many Americans have experienced due to shortages of tests in the U.S.
According to the CDC, “A probable case or death is defined by i) meeting clinical criteria and epidemiologic evidence with no confirmatory laboratory testing performed for COVID-19; or ii) meeting presumptive laboratory evidence and either clinical criteria or epidemiologic evidence; or iii) meeting vital records criteria with no confirmatory laboratory testing performed for COVID19.”
What the US is introducing in the management of coronavirus tend to portray that coronavirus may not be that deadly infection as the global propaganda on COVID-19 imposed on human psyche.
The CDC has highlighted that “State and local public health departments are now testing and publicly reporting their cases. “In the event of a discrepancy between CDC cases and cases reported by state and local public health officials, data reported by states should be considered the most up to date.”
About 600,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the U.S. by the CDC, and over 30,000 deaths have been reported in the U.S., as date compiled by Johns Hopkins University showed.
The US has become higher than every other country on confirmed cases of coronavirus.
However, the adoption of ‘probable’ index in computing coronavirus cases in the US may create artificial figures and statistics of actual cases in the country.  That may further worsen the existing tension and fears over the spread of coronavirus in the US.