The clergyman allegedly indicted by the presidential panel investigating suspended EFCC chairman has threatened to sue the News Agency of Nigeria that first published the news of the panel report.
In a pre-litigation letter to NAN, Prophet Emmanuel Omale denied the allegations that he bought a property in Dubai worth N573m on behalf of Ibrahim Magu who has been facing interrogation by the Justice Ayo Salami panel sitting in Aso Rock.
Omale is the General Overseer of Divine Hand of God Prophetic Ministries International in Abuja.
In the letter which was signed by his lawyer, Gordy Uche (SAN), the cleric said he actually met Magu who was there on medical visit in Dubai earlier in the year. And he prayed for the EFCC chairman.
He added there was nothing like buying property.
The cleric inisted the NAN report reeks of calumny, denigration, actuated by malice, and is calculated to ridicule and disparage him and cast a stain on his reputation; expose him to public hatred and contempt and injure him in his religious calling, as a church leader.
“We, however, wish to make the following clarifications to put the public records straight: That our client is the General Overseer of an Inter-denominational/Multi-religious Prayer Ministry,” he said.
“That our client, only visited Mr. Ibrahim Magu in a hospital in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, sometime in March 2020.
“That our client never laundered any funds whatsoever for Mr. Ibrahim Magu or for anybody whatsoever. Our client does not own any foreign bank account anywhere in the world.
“That there are no funds whatsoever traceable from Mr. Ibrahim Magu to our client’s bank accounts whatsoever neither has our client received any funds whatsoever from Mr. Ibrahim Magu. Our client has never received any funds whatsoever from anybody on behalf of Mr. Ibrahim Magu.
“That our client does not own any property in Dubai. His name was never used to purchase any property whatsoever in Dubai, United Arab Emirates or anywhere else in any part of the world, neither has he purchased any property nor properties for Mr. Ibrahim Magu in any part of the world whatsoever.”
He subsequently asked the Federal Government-owned news agency to retract the publication which had severely injured his reputation, character and calling.”
The cleric asked NAN to restrain itself from further defamation of his character or a libel suit of N1bn would be instituted against the agency.