A 19-year-old boy has been arrested as one of the criminals responsible for the spate of killing in the Akinyele area of Ibadan, Oyo, in June.
The suspect, sent on the killing mission by his 50-year-old master, has killed no fewer than five females raped and murdered in the Akinyele Local Government Area of Ibadan in the month of June.
“Anytime I’m to go for the killing, Baba will give me some charms and also teach me some incantation to recite so that nobody will see me at the scene of the crime,” he confessed while being paraded by the Oyo police command on Friday.
“I will hit the victims with a shovel and recite the incantation immediately I see blood coming out of the victims’ body.
“Baba instructed me to always move around the victims at the scene after killing them and then turn my back on them, staying there for like three minutes; which I did and nobody will see me.
“Baba said the spirits of the victims will come to him after I killed them.
“Baba did not tell me the reason for the killings but do buy me food and gives me N500 after each of the killings I carried out for him.”
But the herbalist denied ever sending the suspect on the mission to kill.
“The boy was brought to me in 2016 and only spent six days with me and I sent him away and since then I have not seen him.
“I only saw him some days ago when he came with the police, though I do give him food,” he said.
According to Commissioner of Police Nwachukwu Enwonwu, the 19-year-old suspect was arrested through a receiver on a phone he stole from one of the deceased victims, Azeezat Shomuyiwa.
The suspect mostly targeted female victims, attacked them with dangerous weapons, rob them before hacking them to death.
“He attacked and killed an 18-year- old Barakat Bello on June 1, attacked and killed 21-year-old, Grace Oshiagwu on June 13, killed a 5-year-old, Mojeed Tirimisiyu on June 22, all in Akinyele.
“His last operation was carried out on June 29 where he attacked Mrs Adeola Azeez and her daughter with a shovel.
“The duo were seriously injured on the head, carted away their phone and money, the victims are currently responding to treatment at the hospital,” Enwonwu said.
The police commissioner said that the suspect led the SARS operatives to the hideout of the herbalist that engaged him for the killings.