One of the longest serving senators and former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu may be on his way of the Peoples’ Democratic Party [PDP] for the ruling All Progressives Congress [APC] over his governorship ambition in Enugu state.
According to a highly placed source close to Ekweremadu, the decision was not borne out of disagreement with the PDP, but rather the existing zoning arrangement of his current party which may not allow him to contest the position comes 2023.
It was gathered that Enugu PDP has insisted on following the zoning arrangements of 1999. Enugu East produced Governor between 1999 and 2007, followed by Enugu West (2007-2015) and now Enugu North (2015-date). The tenure of Enugu North is expected to elapse by 2023.
According to the source, since all zones have benefited from the zoning arrangements, it doesn’t matter which zone produces the next governor.
Meanwhile, Enugu East which has former governors Chimaraoke Nnamani and Jim Nwobodo have made it clear that they are leaving no stone unturned in producing the next governor and the incumbent governor, Rt. Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is strongly in support of Enugu East.
With Ekweremadu leaving no stone unturned on his interest to occupy the Lion Building (Enugu State Government House) and without the support of the incumbent governor, his alternate vehicle to achieve his longtime dream will be the APC.
It was also gathered that Ekweremadu has activated all his governorship structures and is on the verge of concluding all necessary measures before he finally announced his defection to the APC.
Ekweremadu who currently represents Enugu West Senatorial district has been in the senate for 16 years. During his re-election in 2019, Ekweremadu has promised his constituents he would not be seeking another term in the Senate come 2023.
He was first elected to the senate in 2003. In 2015 he attempted to run for Governor but the then Governor, Sullivan Chime denied him the ticket insisting it was the turn of another zone. This prompted Ekweremadu to renegotiate his way back to the Senate.