Barely weeks after some banks in the country shut down their branches for disinfections over suspected Covid-19 cases, Heritage Bank Plc said it has also closed down an Experience Centre- EC (branch) at Allen Avenue; Ikeja over “unconfirmed case” of Coronavirus for deep hygiene clean up after an employee took ill last week.
The bank in a statement made available to the press and customers, noted “in line with our emergency response plan and following regulatory practices, we have taken immediate steps to close down Allen Avenue, Ikeja Experience Centers- EC (branch) for thorough disinfections of the affected location.”
The bank disclosed that whilst the suspected staff awaits her medical test from the Covid-19 Test Centre in Yaba, she had not exhibited any symptoms related to the virus.
“Neither of the suspected person or others in the EC had exhibited any symptoms,” the bank said in the statement.
Specifically, the bank stated that staff were advised to self-isolate for 14days forthwith which was in consonance with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).
The bank stated that the EC will undergo “thorough disinfections,” further affirmed, “Customers and staff safety remains paramount; hence we will recommence business with new set of relief employees, as the current staff self-isolate.”
In the interim, the bank advised customers, “please visit other ECs or branches in Ikeja where you can conduct your daily transactions. Otherwise, you can use our alternate e-channels for seamless service deliveries.
“Heritage Bank remains resolute to continually serve you seamlessly despite prohibitions imposed on physical contact through our bouquet of electronic products which have been made available on notable mobile stores and our website (www.hbng.com).”
The bank noted that it would continue to intensify ongoing efforts via its intranet and other channels to keep staff and customers up-to-date with the latest COVID-19 information and provide clear direction and guidance expected of workers and customers.
Recall that Jaiz Bank Plc, a non-interest bank that is listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, had closed its Ikeja branch when one of its staff became infected with the COVID-19 virus in June, while Polaris Bank and Access Bank Plc also did same in March.
Access Bank Plc has closed its branch at Ligali Ayorinde Victoria Island branch as one its customers who visited the branch on March 16, 2020 has tested positive to coronavirus.