By Nosa Eresoyen Asaba
Delta Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has called on International Oil Companies operating in the state to always live in peace and harmony by taking care of the welfare of their host communities to avoid a volatile working environment.
The Governor stated this during the week at the inauguration of the new leadership of oil rich Odimodi community in Iduwini Kingdom, Burutu Local Government Area of the state.
Governor Okowa who was represented by the Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Prince Emman Ambgbaduba had during his speech at the ceremony appreciated the community for their peaceful conduct of election and the subsequent handover ceremony.
He stated that the host communities must be well taken care of as they are the hens that lays the golden eggs.
He tasked the new Odimodi community leadership to carry everyone along in the commuity by consulting all relevant stakeholders throughout their administration, stressing that he is hopeful that the community chairman, Elder Capt. Yangaboy James will surprise his people with robust leadership.
In his acceptance speech, Chairman of Odimodi and its federated communities, Capt. Yangaboy had promised to carry everyone along and to always consult widely, adding that he will consolidate on the existing progress of Odimodi.
Earlier, Chairman of Burutu Local Government Council, Hon. Godknows Angele, in his remark stressed that he is proud of the people of Odimodi community for their peaceful disposition over time.
He noted that for the community to have resorted to self-help developmental schemes which has resulted to what he has seen in Odimodi shows how great they are, noting that he is always happy to grace any occasion at Odimodi.
Speaking further, Angele maintained that COVID-19 is real as he charged sons and daughters of the community to always adhere to the safety measures put in place by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC).
In his speech, out gone Chairman of Odimodi community, Chief Edward Prebor appreciated members of the town for giving him the opportunity to serve as their community chairman, adding that he will always be grateful to them.
High point of the event was the inauguration of the land reclamation project embarked upon by the Edward Prebor’s administration.
The inaugurated Odimodi community executive members include Capt. Elder Yangaboy James, Chairman; Mr. Egberibo Godgift, Vice Chairman; Mr. Godwin Awese, Public Relations Officer; Mr. Pocket Solomon, Assistant Secretary; Mr. Toruwei Daniel, Financial Secretary; Mr. Donyabi Faye, Treasurer; Mr. Anthony Iyepaiya, Ifiye Ward Chairman; Mr. Funpuwei Bibi, Imbe/Bumuzuwei Ward Chairman as well as Mr. Isama Iyafugha, Ifikorowei Ward Chairman.
It would be recalled that a magnificent Ijaw cultural dance troupe was organised by the leadership of the community which thrilled and entertained audience to maximum satisfaction.
An Ijaw music kingpin, Chief Kingsley Takemebo, the Mienkuro also thrilled audience to maximum satisfaction.