The service chiefs of the Nigerian Armed Forces may be coming to the end of the road in their career after years of failure to contain the rising insecurity in Nigeria, National Daily reports
Accordingly, the Nigerian Senate on Tuesday requested President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the service chiefs of the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy and the Nigerian Air Force.
The Senators made the resolution at plenary on Tuesday in considering a motion by Senator Ali Ndume.
Senator Ndume moved his motion with reference to the recent ambush of soldiers in Katsina and the alleged voluntary resignation of over 350 soldiers.
Senator Ndume argued that both developments and others are worrisome.
Senator Ndume further argued that if the trend continues, the government should expect that there will be dire consequences for the country.
The leadership of the National Assembly will be meeting President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to sack the service chiefs and make fresh appointments. They have met the president on the matter before but would be going on another mission to convince President Buhari on why he should no longer retain the service chiefs.
National Daily gathered Senator Ndume, though, raising concerns over the security situation in the country did not recommend the sack of the service chiefs, neither did he demand that they should step aside.
It was gathered that the resolution was made after other senators made contributions to the debate.
Apparently, the Chief of Army Staff met with President Buhari last week on the security situations in the northeast and other parts of the north. The resolution of the Senate has made his tenure, including other service chiefs, shaky.
President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to come under increasing pressures to fire the service chiefs heading the Nigerian Armed Forces, as bloodshed of innocent citizens continued to be perpetuated by bandits in the northwest Nigeria unabated even with the presence of the Nigerian Army, the Police and other security operatives.
Presidency sources disclosed that Buhari may just be waiting for technical advise from the principal officers to effect a change of the leadership of the Armed Forces who could inject new ideas and technicalities into the security system to combat the bandits as well as the Boko Haram terrorists in the northeast.
It is becoming the case that each time the military celebrates marginal success in the fight against the terrorists or bandits, the societal outcasts respond within hours to announce their growing strength in the violence merchandise.