says, Africans must unite for meaningful developments

The Action Democratic Party (ADP), has hailed the decision of Africa Development Bank’s investigative panel, for absolving the President, Mr. Akinwumi Adeshina of any wrong doing.
It will be recalled that,Akinwunmi Adeshina the president of Africa Development Bank,was recently vindicated by the independent review panel led by Mary Robinson, former president of Ireland.
ADP in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Prince Adelaja Adeoye, celebratedAdeshina’s vindication noting that it was commendable,as some of the whistleblowers allegation of favouritism levelled against him were earlier deflated by the ethics committee of the bank, and the new panel also affirmed their decision giving him a clean bill of health.
The party added that Adeshina, while serving as a minister of Agriculture in Nigeria, proved his worth, selflessness, hard work and honesty, which gave rise to boom in food sufficiency in the country at that time.
“His ascension to the top AfDB job, was linked to his track record, which was a clear departure from what obtains in time past, as it pertains to the trajectory of the progress recorded so far by the continent’s bank.
“We are  calling on all leaders in Nigeria and across Africa to keep rallying around him for successful leadership at the Bank.
ADP maintained that in a bid to influence meaningful developments in Africa, there must be unity of purpose, stressing that unity in diversity is strength and that such will help the continent to attain self worth and reliance as it pertains to trade, technology, health care, Agriculture, and also help shore up their economic power.
“ADP would want PMB and other leaders on the Continent to mobilize all efforts and ensure Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala’s bid for the top job at the World Trade Organization – WTO succeeds.
“Africa and in particular Nigeria deserves more of these international leadership positions, to guarantee sustainable development of the huge human and material resources on the continent for the benefits of Africans and the world in general.
“ADP would continue to support good causes and Nigerians who are making their fatherland proud, wherever they are across the world.
We urge young people, making great exploits in science and technological advancement, medicine, gaming, Fintech and other, home and abroad to continue to do so, while we charge others, to see those doing well as role model.