A former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Olusegun Olulade, has been conferred with the prestigious lifetime fellowship recognition award by the Chartered Institute of Public Resources and Politics (CIPRMP) based in Ghana.
At the presentation ceremony in Lagos on Thursday evening, Olulade, who represented Epe Constituency 2 at the Lagos Assembly between 2011 and 2019, was also formally inducted into the 2020 Fellowship Hall of Fame of the Institute.
Speaking at the investiture ceremony, Dr. Richards Kpoku Aquate, Executive Director of the Institute, disclosed that CIPRMP carried out over a two-year intensive research on the former lawmaker’s profile with regards to public service and development.
“We are indeed very proud of your unassailable statesmanship pedigree, your vast managerial acumen and shrewd administrative capabilities which made you at various times to be saddled with very prominent statesmanship responsibilities as Chairman, House Committee on Healthcare Services and later on Chairman, House Committee on Information, Security and Strategy.
“Indeed, you didn’t disappoint the trust and confidence of the Lagos House of Assembly and the State Government because your performance delivery scorecard was amazing and socio-economically productive with enviable laurels,” Aquate said.
He further stressed that, “This institute is not also oblivious of your exemplary landmark accomplishments as a distinguished legislative personality who has traversed the corporate, socio-economic and public service landscape of Nigeria and the diaspora. You have indeed demonstrated rare and incorruptible track records of patriotism in all your statesmanship services, you have overtime proven yourself as an erudite parliamentarian that is committed to improving the lot of the Nigeria Citizenry.
“This institute also wants to commend your tireless humanitarian services over the years to the indigent and also supporting academic pursuits of Nigeria youths through your empowerment initiative called The EleniyanCares Foundation.
“Therefore, we are here on this state visit on behalf of the Advisory Board and Governing Council of this chartered institute to confer and honour one of Nigeria’s high flying intellectual professionals, a renowned public service icon of international repute and a most patriotic Nation builder, Hon. Segun Olulade Eleniyan.”
In his response, Olulade thanked the Institute for the honour, also promising to continue in all he has been doing, which prompted the Institute to bestow the honour on him.
It would be recalled that the Institute, on Monday, honoured the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu with the same award and also inducted him into its Hall of Fame.