Police in Rivers State have arrested a 47 year old man, Eromosele Mahmud, for impregnating his16 years old daughter who he said he has been having sex with from when she was 12 years old,National Daily learnt.
In a weird twist to the incest, the perverted man not only confessed impregnating his daughter, but has insisted that the 8 weeks’ old pregnancy must not be terminated.
Mahmud who hails from Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, while being paraded by Rivers Police Command told journalists at the command headquarters in Port Harcourt that: “There is an irresistible spiritual force that comes upon me once in a while to have sex with her. And when it comes even my daughter who is now about 16 do not resist does not report to anybody.
Mahmud revealed that he decided to give himself up to the Police,they  did not arrest me because i know that what l have been doing is an abomination,which will make me lose my job, friends and family. But if my imprisonment will liberate my daughter so be it.
Mr Mahmud explained that about what will happen to the pregnancy which is about two months old, I will not support abortion. The Ministry of Social Welfare should know what to do. I am somewhat relieved that I may be out of my daughter’s life so that the evil forces that makes me have sex with her will stop and she would be free.”
He also disclosed that he was once married but divorced his wife when the daughter was very young.
National Daily gathered that Rivers State Police Public Relations Officer,PPRO; Mr. Nnamdi Omoni told Journalists that the command is investigating the matter and will arraigned the suspect in court at the end of the investigation.
A Staff of the Ministry of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation, Mrs. Kaine Harry, told Journalists that the Ministry was alerted by Doctors Without Borders about the incident and the Ministry in turn reported to the Police.
Mrs. Harry said the minor who was impregnated by the father is in protective custody at the moment.