By Ediale Kingsley

Congrats to Real Madrid Football Club. They said it, they did it. Ediale and other Barca faithfuls did mock them to scorn when they dared to dream overtaking Barcelona.

Well. It’s glory for Los Blancos!

They are the deserved heros.

They knew what they had to do to get the trophy. They did just that. Praises to their manager, Zidane Zidan, who has shown the world that he is no fluke.


Real Madrid are La Liga 2020 champions.
A fine mind. A great figure and a smart football manager he is. Being a super player in his days as one of the galacticos of Madrid, Zidane has written his name in the book of great coaches like Pep Guardiola and Jose Mourinho.

What more do you really want to ask from Zidane?

You want to know if he can win other top managers?
He answered that with a Hat trick of the UCL. What’s never been done before. He did it in style as they meet the La Decima mark!

You then start to wonder if he isn’t just a strategic opportunist. If really he can also dominate La Liga as he has conquered the European Champs League?

Well. The once-upon-a-time tricky question has been answered. While he took a sabbatical break as he tried proving a point to Real Madrid’s President Florentino Perez. Real Madrid lost it’s glory, they also lost their Greatest Of All Time player, Cristiano Ronaldo (he may not be the best of their legends if you put Sergio Ramos and Zidane Zidan in the equation).

But as soon as he came back to a falling Los Blancos team. Things sharpened and shaped up for good. So good they win 2020’s La Liga title.

A trophy that Barcelona has dominated in the last 10 years. So even though Real Madrid have 33 copies of the trophy in their museum. It still became a trophy they’d die for. A trophy that now seem very tough to acquire.

Why is it important?

Because there’s an age long reality with facts (read full story here: https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.sportskeeda.com/amp/football/real-madrid-11-barcelona-1-controversial-el-clasicob. That most of the early La Liga title wins by Real Madrid were fraud. It so happen that a certain General Franco, who was a bloody dictator, used every brutal and unfair instruments to prevent Barcelona from disturbing Real Madrid.

It was a political statement by some Madrid supremacists in power and Government. But since the elimination of such political entrapment. FC Barca has become stronger and as a result become stategically set up by Catalona people to stand as a symbol of freedom and opposition against the oppressive powers that once backed Real Madrid.

There are still traces of these political tussle. Catalona still seeks independence. And so every El Clasico has since become more than a game. That is why Real Madrid and Barcelona are consistently in shape to win the La Liga.

While Manchester United may relax after winning the English title for 13 times. It is not the same thing for Barcelona or Madrid.

So you can understand what this trophy means for Real Madrid. Knowing that in the last 10 years. Since 2009/10 to 2018/19, Barca has won it 7 times (2019, 2018, 2016, 2015, 2013, 2011and 2010). While Madrid is only able to win it 2 times (2017 and 2012). Atletico Madrid won it in 2014.

Zidane has done it again — thanks to his managerial skills, Barca’s internal problems and Madrid’s quality bench of youngsters. Madrid’s bench is so good that a Bale’s abscence in the post covid-19 games became a welcome idea.