The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, has said that the Zango Kataf youths should be blamed for the fresh violence rocking Southern Kaduna.
MACBAN’s spokesman, Ibrahim Bayero Zango, who disclosed this in a statement lamented that “bloodthirsty” youths of Zango Kataf allegedly waylaid some Fulani herdsmen on intentional routes.
He condemned what he called the “viciousness and inhuman killings and destruction of property of innocent nomads that took place in some parts Zango Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State, particularly in some villages of Atyap Chiefdom.
“The question that requires to be answered is the relationship between the farmland in dispute and the crisis, which caused the killings of innocent Fulani nomads in the areas mentioned above by the Kataf youth in which two innocent Fulani nomads were killed at Ungwan Gaiya near the palace of the Chief of Kataf in the house of Alhaji Ja’e, who has been leaving in the area for almost a century.
“The two men that were killed are Abdullahi Ja’e and Pate Ja’e who were in their early thirties. Another two young men with an elderly woman were killed at Ungwan Juju. “Four others were killed at Gora Sagwaza and one person was killed at Matai.
“We also condemned the barbaric acts of the Kataf youths, who waylayed and killed some Fulani nomads, who were passing by through the International Cattle Routes, which cross the areas on their ways to Bauchi State.
“Their cattle and other belongings were destroyed or stolen by the blood-thirsty Kataf youths. The number of those that were killed and the sheep are yet to be confirmed.”
Zango urged the Governor Nasir El-Rufai government to ensure it identified and dealt with those behind the violence.
Recall that the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, SOKAPU, had raised an alarm that its area was under a siege by Fulani armed men. SOKAPU had alleged of genocidal campaign by Fulani militia.
The group claimed victims were mostly kids, women and the aged.”