The latest EPL report reaching National Daily reveals that the Premier League clubs have been requested to play the remaining 92 matches of the 2019-20 season at neutral venues.
The league’s ‘Project Restart’ plans were well received but it is understood there was still opposition to the idea of not playing the remaining 92 matches of the 2019-20 season on a home-and-away basis.
It is reported that the only way for clubs to obtain safety clearances to play is embrace the idea of completing the remaining games of the current season at neutral venues.
Meanwhile, clubs are expected to vote on the key principles of ‘Project Restart’ sometime after May 7, when the Government need to review the current UK lockdown.
National Daily further confirmed the need to play at neutral venues from the view of the UK national football policing lead, Deputy Chief Constable Mark Roberts of South Yorkshire Police.
Mark Roberts told the PA news agency on Wednesday that playing all matches in the Premier League and EFL at their original venues would “present challenges” for the emergency services at a time when they are already stretched.
Furthermore, National Daily understood that there were still no discussions around declaring the season null and void or curtailing it, with France and Holland having been forced to end their competitions because of government orders.
It is believed that the league is working with Government on the restart plans and the first meeting took place on Friday between medical officials from sports governing bodies, including the Premier League’s Mark Gillett, and representatives from Public Health England.
Return-to-training protocols, which include wearing face masks or snoods, were presented to clubs.
More so, teams will consult with playing and management staff on the proposals, which are still subject to approval.
It is understood the league is still working towards a best-case scenario of play being able to resume from June 8.
Lastly, necessary further discussions will also be required on the subject of player status, particularly around temporary contract extensions for players whose deals expire on June 30 and those, such as Hakim Ziyech, whose registration starts on July 1..