A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, representing Eredo federal constituency, Edo State, at the National Assembly, on Friday  commended all  health workers in Nigeria in the forefront of the battle to contain coronavirus in the country. He emphatically commended workers in Edo State for their strong spirit and passion for service to the State. He advocated for better welfare and protection for health workers across the country.

The federal legislator in a statement observed that what would have been happy celebration has been beclouded by the fear of coronavirus health crisis and uncertainty of the economy after the crisis.
He was of the view that despite the health crisis and in line with this year’s theme: ‘Stop the Pandemic’, Nigerian workers still deserve to be celebrated.

The lawmaker declared: “In ideal circumstances, I should begin by saying Happy Workers Day; but these are not ideal circumstances.

“The present pandemic has clouded our celebrations with an atmosphere of confusion, fear for our health and those of our families, expectations of a bleak economy post-covid-19, and uncertainty about whether workers will still have jobs when this is over.

“We thank them for their selfless service and sacrifice, as we also thank all other workers for their dedication and commitment to driving the engine that keeps our state running.

“In spite of all the negative permutations, two things are key; one, the spirit of the Edo worker is strong and resolute and their passion and readiness to discharge their duties is unquestionable. Two, if provided the right leadership to work with, most of the concerns mentioned earlier would not be as troubling as they are presently.”

Ogbeide-Ihama advocated that the current crisis in the country calls for creativity and innovations in handling national issues.

He stated: “Times like this should awaken us to the need for creative and innovative thinking targeted at improving the lots of our dear workers. I assure you that with fresh ideas and new ways of thinking, the future holds hope and prosperity for you and your loved ones.”