President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Akinwunmi Adesina, is seating on the hot seat at the moment over allegations of favouritism and nepotism in the management of the operations of the bank by a group of masked employees at AfDB masquerading as whistleblowers.
The United States few days had rejected the clean bill given Dr. Adesina by the bank’s ethics committee, and instead called for an independent probe, thus upending AfDB’s board decision to end an investigation against Adesina.
While the bank have succumbed to the US pressures, the man at the centre, insisted the allegations were trumped-up to tarnish his image, as well as the reputation of the African Development Bank.
According to findings by National Daily, the alleged infractions, numbering 16 is presented below.
“1. Non-respect of internal rules and regulations in recruitment (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, political activity, private gain).
2. Appointment of Mrs. Chinelo Anohu-Amazu (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment, adversely affecting confidence in the integrity of the Bank).
3. Appointment and promotions of Mr. Martin Fregene (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment).
4. Mismanagement of the TAAT programme (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment, adversely affecting confidence in the integrity of the Bank).
5. Appointments and promotions of Mrs. Maria Mulundi (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment, private gain).
6. Direct contracting and appointment of Mr. Victor Oladokun (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, private gain, preferential treatment).
7. Contracting of Mr. Kapil Kapoor (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment).
8. Appointment of Mr. Emmanuel Ezinwa (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment, adversely affecting confidence in the integrity of the Bank).
9. Preferential treatment for Nigeria and Nigerians (unethical conduct, impediment to efficiency, preferential treatment).
10. Awards received by the President and costs borne by the Bank (unethical conduct, private gain, impediment to efficiency).
11. Settlements for staff separations (unethical conduct, preferential treatment, impediment to efficiency).
12. Resignation of Mr. David Ssegawa (unethical conduct, preferential treatment, impediment to efficiency, adversely affecting confidence in the integrity of the bank).
13. Resignation of Mr. Michel-Cyr Djiena-Wembou (unethical conduct, preferential treatment, impediment to efficiency, adversely affecting confidence in the integrity of the bank).
14. Appointment of Mr. Charles Lufumpa as acting VP and Chief Economist (unethical conduct, preferential treatment, impediment to efficiency, adversely affecting confidence in the integrity of the bank).
15. Disregard of rules concerning leave of absence of VPs or travel of management (unethical conduct, preferential treatment, impediment to efficiency).
16. Political lobbying of Heads of State (unethical conduct, political activity, private gain).