The Deputy Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Noheem Adams has charged constituents and Lagosians to repose their trust in the Babajide Sanwo-Olu led administration and the Legislature, who are the true representative of the people.

Stating that the  government style is proactive and capable of ensuring their utmost safety considering the synergy between the two arms of government.

Adams who represents Eti Osa Constituency I, made this assertion, while distributing 5000 packs of relief packages to his constituents who populate three localities; Eti Osa East, Eti Osa West and Iru Local Council Development Area- LCDA.

The Lawmaker distributed the packages through their Community Development Associations and Traditional Rulers, with a bid to ameliorate the hardship posed by the ravaging scourge of COVID-19 pandemic.

Hon. Adams stated that the initiative is to complement the efforts of the State Government, and ensure people adhere to the “Stay at Home” order.

He commended the Speaker of the State Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, for his forthrightness in bringing to fore “A Bill for a Law to Combat and Stop the Spread of the Coronavirus Pandemic in Lagos State and for Connected Purposes”, ensuring speedy passage of the bill into Law, which has given the Governor enough backing to tackle the situation head-long,though awaiting his assent.

“This Bill by the House has empowered Mr. Governor in combating the deadly CODIV-19 pandemic in the State” Adams established.

He said, “The relief packages is aimed at ameliorating the sufferings of my constituents while the scourge of COVID-19 pandemic last.”

He emphasized that the palliative, “is basically to complement the efforts of the State Government to help the people to stay at home and safe from being infected with the virus.

“Going by the rising number of those that has been discharged after treatment and declared free of the virus in Lagos, this shows that the State Government is efficient and effective in treating this COVID-19 disease.”

Adams stated that Italy, Spain, United State of America are still counting their dead as a result of COVID-19 in thousands but its deadly effect is minimal here.

“I want to commend Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Commissioner for Health, Prof.  Akin Abayomi for been on top of the situation.”

“I urge everyone of us to repose our trust in this Government for they have been commissioned by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to ensure the security of lives and properties of the populace.”

 Adding that, “My counsel is that you stay in door, let us adhere strictly to all the precautionary measures advanced by Government at the three tiers; Local, State and Federal levels because what the government is trying to do is to say: it is when you are alive that you can say you want to do so many things.”

He said Government is trying to protect our lives and properties as it is clearly stipulated in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that the main purpose of government is the protection of lives and properties of the citizens and that is what they are doing.

One of the recipients of the relief packages, a representative of the resettlement area, Alhaji Suraju Abejamu commended the good gesture of the Lawmaker stating that he is known for giving several aids to his constituents.

“I am just an errand man, I am sent by Hon. Noheem Adams to go back to the resettlement and share food packages to people for them to feel less burdened staying at home.”

“He has been doing this severally, this is not the first time but with this situation on our hands, people will be rest assured while complying with the sit at home directives”

“They have a Honourable representing them who feels for them and has been giving them something to eat and even money to spend. He concluded.

Adams urged them to take precautionary measures while the items will relieve of the people for a while.

The relief packages which contains sealed rice, beans, garri and other assorted items were given to the head of Ado community to shar to his people.

The Baale of Baadore Community, Chief Muraino Jikogi who received the relief packages on behalf of his people, noted that the Honourable Member has been a shining star ever since he got to the Assembly and has been making them proud; commending him for the gesture.

Prince Isiaka Agbabiaka who represented Chief Murisiku Alani Oseni the Baale of Ajah, was quick to add that they will take to all necessary precautionary to keep the virus at bay in their community, while he appreciated the gesture from the lawmaker.