Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike of Rivers State in a state broadcast on Wednesday acquainted the people that the coronavirus pandemic has been a global concern and for the Rivers State government the commitment to the safety of the life of the people is a responsibility the state government can toy with or compromise, saying that there is no room for politics in tackling coronavirus infection in Rivers State.
Governor Wike noted that the restoration of total lockdown order in Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas was to take effect from Thursday.
The governor stated that, however, while on routine monitoring, he observed how difficult it has been for residents to access money from their banks to make purchases during the two-day window that was given.
The governor stated: “this difficulty has, no doubt, prevented most residents of the two affected Local Government Areas from preparing and making adequate provisions for the upkeep of their families when the lockdown returns.
“Time and time again, we have said that the lockdown is a necessary measure, universally applied, to mitigate community transmission of the covid-19 pandemic.
“ Our own situation is not and can’t be different. Covid-19 is not only here with us; it is increasing in number of infections as we recorded 16 new cases for today, the highest since the index case, which goes to confirm not only my personal apprehension for our State and the need to be tough in our mitigation strategies.”
Governor Wike, therefore, declared: “and so, there is no room for politics in this matter. We must discharge our abiding duty to use the primary weapons at our disposal to combat this virus and contain its spread, lest we regret the consequences of our inactivity and indiscretions.
“ We understand the consequential difficulties, but what we can do in the circumstance is to appeal to the public to endure the attendant discomfort as inevitable sacrifice for the common good of all.
“Suffice to mention that no deliberate harm is ever intended or targeted at anybody, neither are we happy with the prevailing hardship on the people as a result of measures we have adopted to fight this deadly virus.
“ But the overall interest, security and wellbeing of our people remain our primary motivation for what we have done and will continue to do to combat and protect our State from the Covid-19 scourge.”
The governor stated that in consideration of the foregoing, the concerns of the people, and the need for residents to replenish their supplies, especially, “the State Security Council has decided to impose a night-time curfew and review the effective date of the complete lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt City Local Government Areas from the 14th of May 2020 to Sunday 17th May 2020 by 8.00 p.m.”
“Consequently, there will be:
(i) a night-time curfew in Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas from 8.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. on Thursday, 14th May 2020, Friday 15th May 2020, and Saturday 16th May 2020.
(ii) while the total lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas will immediately follow from 8.00 p.m. Sunday 17th May 2020 until further notice.
“Furthermore, all residents are again advised to comply with all other established measures, including the compulsory wearing of face masks and the closure of our land, sea and air boundaries and entry routes, which are still in force.
“We expect residents to make good use of the new Four-day daytime window to purchase, restock and prepare for the total lockdown,” Governor Wike declared.
Governor Wike thanked the people of the state for the cooperation as the state government continues to do all it can to stop the spread of coronavirus in Rivers State. He encouraged residents of the state to continue with their support by staying at home and staying safe.