In continuation of the inspection on illegal dredging activities in the State; the Lagos State House of Assembly 7-Man Ad Hoc Committee on dredging has continued the investigation visits to the inland dredging areas with officials of the Ministry of Waterfront and Infastructure on Thursday.

     The Committee  who inspected the dredging areas of Awoyaya areas of Ajah met with representatives of Niirend Nigeria Limited, Rockstar Shelter Limited, Horlegin Resources Limited and Hon. Bayo Balogun Company in Old Bodije at Ibeju Lekki Local Government, to assess and evaluate the representation of their dredging conducts.

   Hon. Victor Akande, Chairman of the Committee stated that National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) approved most of the sites in the area. However, many of them did not have permits for dredging and selling from the State Government.

    In addition to the Committee’s assessment, Hon. Akande noted that the roads leading to the dredging sites are deplorable.
“Lagos is about to become a smart-city and we cannot have the roads in the communities in a deplorable state.” He lamented.

   Mr. Fetus Olayemi, a resident of Awoyaya Community commented on the dredgers flouting orders for the ceasing of their activities during the lockdown, and without regard to the peace of the people, they just continue dredging while endangering the lives and properties of the communities around the areas.

He informed the Committee that their community leader had informed them that dredging activities during lockdown would take place only at night due to the lockdown thereby creating discomfort.

One of the representatives of Uniquedros Limited, Mr. Femi Abebe who has been in the business of dredging since 1995  explained that as dredgers, they have also had issues with the local touts in the area who continually harass them for money thereby making the business environment stifling. Adding that Nigerians had been replaced by foreigners in the dredging sector in the area.

The Committee invited the dredging companies to furnish the House with copies of their permits and other relevant documents for verification next week Wednesday.

Other Members present were Hon. Adedamola Kasunmu and Hon. Ajani Owolabi.