The Spanish La Liga suffered a halt on March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic as all football activities in Spain were put on hold.
Meanwhile, football fans can finally celebrate the opportunity to see their super stars back into action after much anticipation.
Report just reaching National Daily has revealed that the La Liga has been given the green light to restart from June 8, following guidelines from Spain’s Ministry of Health.
However, there is no officially confirmed date for the resumption of the La Liga yet, but the assurance of a restart next month is rife.
Before the suspension of the La Liga on March 23, Barcelona were two points ahead of their bitter rivals Real Madrid with all teams left with 11 matches still to play.
Barcelona are currently topping the table with 58 points
Meanwhile, unlike the English League where the lower has been cancelled, the Spanish Segunda Division – Spain’s second tier – has also been cleared to resume on the same date.
La Liga president Javier Tebas recently hinted on his desires for a daily match fixture once play resumes
The La Liga president Javier Tebas reacting to the development on Twitter, said: “We are very happy for the decision, it is the result of the great work of clubs, players, technicians, CSD (National Sports Council) and agents involved.
“But we cannot lower our guard, it is important to follow health regulations and ensure the pandemic doesn’t come back.”
Before now, the La Liga clubs have already resumed training in small groups of up to 10 people, having initially returned to individual training in early May.
Tebas speaking earlier this month, reiterated his wish to have a daily fixture of matches once play resumed.
“That’s what I hope,” Tebas said. “We shouldn’t have any problems playing on Mondays across the eleven rounds of matches we have left to play.
“I hope for some sense from the Spanish Football Federation on this, because it’s very important for us to be able to give both our national and international broadcasters, and fans across the world, football on as many days as possible to ensure as little disruption as possible.”
National Daily can confirm that Spain is one of the countries with worst effect of the coronavirus outbreak, with more than 28,000 deaths and more than 234,000 cases of infection diagnosed. But the daily death toll has been steadily declining, with 56 deaths registered on Friday.