The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and an online media platform have landed themselves in the thick of  legal battle with the leadership of the House of Reps for disseminating and publishing a bribery allegation against the lawmakers.
CUPP on Monday alleged that it intercepted a report that the leadership of the House of Representatives was poised to forcefully pass the compulsory vaccine bill without subjecting it to the traditions of legislative proceedings. The consideration, the political group spokesperson Ugo Chinyere, said was a $10m bribe Microsoft founder Bill Gates offered the leadership of the house.
Chinyere based his evidence on human intelligence.
Adopting the point of order on Tuesday, the house resolved to take legal action against the online media organisation that first reported it.
While moving the motion, Dep. Speaker Ahmed Wase said he had not collected anything neither was he aware of any member of the house that had collected money from anyone on that account.
Also, the Majority Leader of the house, Alhassan Doguwa, (APC-Kano) said that he saw the report alleging that members were given money to pass the bill.
Doguwa said he did not collect money from anyone adding that the house was doing its job in line with what was necessary for the safety of the people.
The Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, (PDP-Delta) said he read a similar story on an online news medium  that Mr Gates reportedly offered the house was $10 million to pass the bill.
Elumelu said he did not get any money and no member of the minority group had collected any amount to support the bill.
“By the time the Gates Foundation came to the House, we were all in attendance. I want to submit that we did not receive anything and I stand by it,” he said.
Speaker Gbajabiamila said that issues with such baseless accusation would be given credence when responded to.
He once again emphasized the need to regulate social media and online publications.
The speaker added that the allegation was weighty enough for legal action to be taken against the media organisation “to serve as deterrent to others.”