Ediale Kingsley drops 12 tangible nuggets after seeing a viral video of man beating up his wife even as their kids are traumatized.

See video link here:https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=10221611755180441&id=1150262505

Here are the 12 Nuggets:

1. It was never love that brought them together.

2. One of them must have seen this happening in the nearest future but decided to ignore and go ahead with the marriage.

3. No rational person would stay in such a relationship with such other irrational person.

4. When you are about to beat a woman like this for whatsoever thing she must have done to you. Remember that it’s not worth it. Because life is too short for this. Everyone will die eventually, both the ‘hurter’ and the ‘hurtee’.

5. This did not happen suddenly. This happened the first time you met each other for a date when he almost slapped the waiter for being rude to you. You only saw it as strenght or love then. You misread him or her sometime long before the marriage. Sometime inside the courtship that led to the wedding.

6. He slapped you while still dating. You forgave him. And you thought forgiveness means forget and give him another chance. You were wrong.

7. Any little negative issue is enough to call off a serious date. I said ANY, I also mean EVERY.

8. It is okay to be single. It’s a perfect lifestyle. You’ll never know because you have never fully maximized the oppprtunity of being single.

9. It’s awesome to be married and have a family. But such awesomeness depends on getting your PICK, DEVELOPMENT and GROWTH right. Otherwise, being single is bea.

10. The smallest amount of violence in a union (marriage) can lead to DEATH, DISEASE, DESTRUCTION OF DESTINIES OR/AND DAMAGED LIFE.

11. God hates divorce. But not enough to add it to the 10 commandments. God hates murder and many other stuff more.

12. It’s possible to have a marriage that will NEVER experience this form of violence. Don’t buy that ‘every marriage has it’s own challenges”. This is not a challenge, this is a big destiny/life threatening PROBLEM.