The president of Women Arise, Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin is calling on all Lagosians and Nigerians to stay safe and be responsible even as the lockdown is eased.

She said:


As lockdown is relaxed in Lagos State and FCT beginning from today Monday, May 4th, it is important to sound a note of caution on all fronts.

To the people who are expected to troop out today after a prolonged lockdown that has stripped them to their bones, they must understand that relaxation of lockdown is not a statement by government that Coronavirus has been defeated.

Sadly, Coronavirus is still alive and doing well. The statistics of the daily spike in the figures of the infected nationwide confirm this.

The latest figures as at Monday , May 4th, 2020 are as follows:
Total confirmed : 2558
Discharged : 400
Deaths :  87

We must remember also that there is no generally established cure for Coronavirus yet. Various vaccines being developed and tested simply show that we are on the way but it is not victory yet.

Therefore, we advise our people to take the utmost precautions to scrupulously and diligently observe all Covid-19 protocols, especially the proper wearing of face masks, observation of physical distancing and other hygiene rules and regulations of regular washing of hands with soap as well as use of hand sanitizers.

To the Federal and State governments, relaxation of lockdown must not become abdication of the responsibility to continue to give effective leadership in these trying periods.

Government must continue to expand health facilities such as the isolation centres, ensure the provision of adequate Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), testing equipments and kits as well as give prompt advisory that will provide detailed and up-to-date information that will effectively guide the citizenry.

Relaxation of lockdown should also be kept under close watch and scrutiny by all relevant authorities for possible review as the occasion demands.

Importantly, government should not fold its arms and expect solution to this pandemic to come from outside its shores.

This is the time to rally our institutions of higher learning and research centres to also vigorously join the search for a cure to Coronavirus.

With the right encouragement and motivation, our belief is that this country has enough talent to take up any challenge and excellently discharge itself.

We have done it before; we can do it again.

Finally, we should be prayerful and resolute that we shall overcome these trying times for, as they say, tough times never last but tough people do.

Mercifully, Nigerians are tough people in all respect and by all standards.