The United States (US) vehement protest the China is responsible for the outbreak of coronavirus has continued to intensify. Taking the protest further, the US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), on Sunday traced the origin of coronavirus outbreak to China. He insisted that “enormous evidence” exists that coronavirus broke out in a laboratory in Wuhan, China. Pompeo was cited on ABC programme – This Week – to maintain that “There is enormous evidence that this is where it began.”
The US Secretary of State could not, however, ascertain whether the virus was intentionally released or there was an accident.
US President, Donald Trump, has sustained aggressive global campaign that China recklessly concealed important information about the outbreak of coronavirus which has tormented 3.5 million people and killed over 240,000 victims, shut economies of countries of the world. Trump has insisted that China be held “accountable” for the coronavirus tragedies.
Pompeo was said to have revealed his acquiescence with a statement last Thursday from the US intelligence agencies which concurred “with the wide scientific consensus that the COVID-19 virus was not man-made or genetically modified.” He, however, reiterated his belief of “significant” and “enormous” evidence that the virus originated in a Wuhan laboratory. Pompeo had accordingly declared: “I think the whole world can see now, remember, China has a history of infecting the world and running substandard laboratories.”  He added that early efforts by China to downplay the coronavirus showed “a classic Communist disinformation effort. That created enormous risk.
“President Trump is very clear: we’ll hold those responsible accountable.”
It was gathered that President Trump has directed US spies to find out more about the origins of coronavirus. He had earlier blamed on a Wuhan market selling exotic animals like bats; but now thought coronavirus possibly emanated from research laboratory nearby.