Guaranty Trust Bank plc has listed measures it has put in place as its customers go into the phased easing of lockdown protocols beginning from Monday, 4th of May, 2020 after five weeks of lockdown.
In a statement issued by the bank to its customers, it stated that one of the major places it will have to work together with the customers to keep everyone safe is at its branches, some of which will reopen from May 4, 2020.
“We have put together some key areas of collaboration which, with your active participation, will enable us to greatly mitigate a potential spread of the Coronavirus,” the statement reads in parts.
According to the bank, personal protection remains the most effective way to curb the spread of the Coronavirus.
“On our part, we will provide hand sanitizers, carry out individual temperature checks and ensure that there is adequate spacing between people. On your part, kindly ensure that you have your face mask on and also make use of the hand sanitisers at the entrance of all our branches.
The bank also mentioned physical distancing, noting that it has taken measures to ensure transactions at the banking halls are conducted at a safe distance from one another.
In the area of cash handling, GTbank said its staff will pay extra diligence to cash handling and would only give out cash that has been adequately processed.
It stated that cash deposits over a certain amount in the banking halls will take 48 hours, in order to allow its staff to take all necessary precautions in the processing of the cash.
The bank also stated that in the event that something goes wrong, it has segmented its branches so that it could quickly switch to another set if there’s the need to shut down a branch due to an outbreak.
“We will also be keeping you informed of which set of branches will be open on a weekly basis, so please look out for our communication via our corporate website,  email and on social media.”
“You can effectively help reduce the chances of such mass gatherings at our branches by making use of our e-channels and self-service platforms. On our part, we have made sure that our digital banking platforms are running optimally so that you can continue to access our financial services seamlessly anywhere, anytime using Internet Banking, GTWorld, the GTBank Mobile App and our 737 USSD Service,” it added.