By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos

The immediate past youth president of the Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN), Engr. Daniel Kadzai, has applauded the performance of the Adamawa State Governor, Alh. Ahmadu Fintiri, calling on detractors of the Governor to give democracy a chance.

Kadzai stated this on Friday while reacting to a publication of a news medium Desert Herald which described Governor Fintiri as unpopular.

Speaking to our correspondent in Jos, the ex CAN youth boss said Since the emergence of Fintiri as Governor on 29th May 2019, the State has witness massive infrastructural development as well as a boost in the welfare of public servants.

“Those who were groaning under excruciating pains particularly civil servants and students in the State have gotten sigh of relief while the hopeless has received hope within the one year of the fresh administration”, he said.

Kadzai alluded to the fact that Governor Fintiri rode into office on the account of good will of the poor masses who were fed up with the inept leadership of his predecessor, adding that the trust bestowed on him has made him to remain focus and steady in meeting the yearning and aspirations of the people.

“On his assumption to office, Fintiri took the challenge of addressing the plights of Adamawa citizens as his priority, a step which has restored confidence and fresh air in the State.

“His performance in office within few months from inauguration endeared the public and indeed critical stakeholders in Adamawa, who christened his government as Fresh Air Administration.

“Since then, Governor Fintiri has remained focus in the delivery of the dividends of democracy despites the myriad of challenges inherited by the previous administration raging from lack of payment of public servants, students scholarship, poor infrastructural network among others.

“The Fresh Air Fintiri Administration has made Adamawa State work again by prompt payment of public servants, with the new minimum wage to boost the economy of the State.

“He promised the people free education which has taken centre stage, coupled with payment of WAEC and NECO fees for secondary school students in the State, an effort which has taken away the burden of education from parents who can hardly feed their household in a day”, Kadzai said.

The ex CAN president who is presently

the elected national youth leader, Congress of Northern Nigeria Christians (CNNC), also said youths in the State has applauded the Governor in his effort to clear the inherited scholarship of tertiary institutions where students and thousands of students were defrauded in the past by compelling them to buy scholarship forms for N500 without any payment at the end of the day.


“Besides all this Adamawa has witness massive rural electrification, quality road network, construction and renovation of primary and secondary schools for quality and conducive learning environment”.

It would be recalled that the CNNC has sometime in 2019, attested to the developmental strides of the Fintiri administration which has brought sanity in governance.

The Christian group which passed a vote of confidence on the Fresh Air Fintiri said: “We have watch with keen interest the performance of the Fresh Air Administration of Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, who has kept his words since assumption of office.

“We are aware of his free education programme in the state; payment of WAEC and NECO for secondary school students; payment of Minimum wage, salaries of public servants and payment of scholarship of students in tertiary institutions in the state.

“He has delivered on his promised on infrastructural and educational development at the State University Mubi. He promised Local Government Autonomy, that has been delivered , Civil Service Reform, that has been done, renovation of classrooms for effective learning environment for pupils, that has also been delivered.”

For the Concerned and critical stakeholders in Adamawa state, Governor Fintiri was able to achieved this feat within few months in office due to his choice of political appointees.

The Group noted that the choice of the Secretary to the State Government, Chief of Staff and most of his commissioners and cabinet members accelerated his achievement for few months in office.

The public has attested to the fact that his political appointees are grassroot politicians who have maintained close contact with the people.

The Governor has restored confidence and dignity of traditional rulers who were subjected to ridicule, pressure and harassment by the previous administration for cheap and personal political gains.

These has contributed immensely to peace the state is currently enjoying. Fintiri in collaboration with traditional rulers, community leaders and vigilante has stage a war against bandits who operated freely during the last administration.

His prudent financial management, increase in Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), used of Biometric regulations and BVN to reduce payroll fraud, improved procurement practice, strengthened public debt management qualified the state as beneficires of the N43.4 billion shared to 24 states by the Federal Government.

Although, Fintiri is fully aware of the challenges of huge public expectations on his administration and has demonstrated the zeal and determination to do the best he could as a leader with grassroots support and potential to sustained public support ahead of 2023 elections.