Controversies surrounding the legislation of an unpopular infectious disease control by the Nigerian National Assembly have been linked to the business ambition of Bill Gates to create market for the vaccines produced by his firm.
The Chairman of Children’s Health Defense, in the US, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., disclosed that
Bill Gates is the world’s largest vaccine producer and the single largest donor to the World Health Organization (WHO), stepping donor activities to bride the lacuna opened by the suspending of US funding of WHO by President Donald Trump until the outcome of the investigation of the role of WHO information dissemination of the COVID-19 crisis.
He noted that the CDC Foundation and the global health organization now constitute marketing organs for Bill Gates vaccine empire, which some countries, especially, Nigeria is attempting to impose on Nigerian citizens through health laws that makes vaccination against infectious diseases compulsory, irrespective of the health status of the citizens.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. revealed that Bill Gates influence  made WHO assert “vaccine hesitancy” in January 2019, signaling a top “global health threat” –  with Ebola, HIV, war, and drug-resistant pathogens, among others – signaling a worldwide Pharma Gold Rush to impose vaccines on all people across the world.
Gates, he said, deployed his donations to WHO to influence the organization’s Intelligence Committee Chairman, Adam Schiff’s PAC.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. recalled that Schiff had written to Facebook, Google, and Amazon, urging them to censor “vaccine misinformation,” obstruct all form of skepticism towards government and industry projection of vaccine safety or efficacy, notwithstanding if the claims are true or false.
Schiff was cited to have declared: “Vaccines are both effective and safe.
“There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling disease.”
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. declared” “This was misinformation. A year earlier, Schiff pushed a bill to hike the Vaccine Court admin budget to $11,200,000 to reduce vaccine injury backlogs.”
He stated that the court had already paid out $4 billion for vaccine deaths and disabilities.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. disclosed that Facebook and Pinterest insisted they will rely on Gates’s WHO and CDC to determine which online statements constitute “misinformation or hoaxes.”
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. also revealed that Facebook and Google hired “FactChecker” (Politifact) to censor vaccine misinformation.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. also declared: “The Gates Foundation is “FactChecker’s” largest funder.”
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. maintained that investigative journalist Jeremy Hammond in his article, “Facebook “Fact-Checker”; “Misinforms Users about Vaccine Safety”; concluded: “Facebook is guilty of misinforming its users about vaccine safety … They have no problem with lies about vaccine safety and effectiveness, as long as it’s intended to persuade parents to vaccinate their children.”
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. also narrated that on May 4, 2017, FactChecker declared Del Bigtree’s statement that “Vaccines include aluminum and mercury, which are neurotoxins, and vaccines cause encephalopathy” to be false.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. further said that FactChecker explained: “Current data show vaccines are safe and do not cause toxicity or encephalopathy.”
He maintained that manufacturer’s inserts reveal that many vaccines contain aluminum and mercury, and cause encephalopathy.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., declared that, “Finally, massive gifts to NPR and PBS buys Gates biased vaccine coverage from public media.”