Revolution Now convener, actvist, politician, and publisher, Omoyele Sowore, is in the news again. This time, the Sahara Reporters publisher engaged Twitter Nigeria on a hashtag trend that says I Stand Against Buhari. He delivered his disgust in a tweet and asked that Nigerians who are also fed up with the government should tweet like wise.
He tweeted, “I stand against tyranny; I stand against incompetence; I stand against corrupt leadership; I stand against a government of impunity, I stand against divisive governance, I stand against nepotism; YOU MAY ADD YOURs #IstandagainstBuhari #RevolutionNow”
In series of quick attacks many ProBuharists also launched against his tweet in  an attempt to back the current Government.
@Olaneeyee tweeted, “I stand against self inflicted stupidity. I stand against blackmailing a govt whose larger % of Nigerians freely gave their mandates. I stand against Sowore in his bid to continue to constitute nuisance after losing ELECTION so terribly! #IStandwithBuhari. #Revolt2ruBallotBox”
In the same.manner,  @ChineduOgbunyi1 also tweeted, “I stand against d stupidity of Sowere. I stand against d foolishness of sowere. I stand against a fool who calls for revolution in a country over 200m of over 200 different ethnic groups. I stand against a faild politician who foolishly calls for chaos. I stand a drug damaged misfit”.
And more…
Mazi Chinedu tweeted, “I stand against a madman who in the midst of a pandemic is preaching revolution. I stand against a failed politician who thinks that mass murder is the only way to get into aso rock. I stand against sowore who’s constantly using the rogue Sahara reporters to spew fake news”.
However, a host of other Nigerians also stood with Sowore:
@Oluomoofderby tweeted, ‘ stand against bad governance. I stand against disrespect for the rule of law in our society. I stand against police brutality. I stand against corruption. I stand against Election rigging. I stand against election violence
And…
Benson Ayomide tweeted,” I stand against govt that won’t allow freedom of speech , I stand against govt run like a secret cult, I stand against govt that is insensitive, I stand against govt tht lies too much, I stand against govt that takes her citizens for fool #istandagainstbuhari”
In the same manner…
@realmfonbassy tweeted, “I stand against all violations against international laws/human rights. I stand against any opposition to rights to self determination . I stand against false hope/promoters  of false hope in an entity with no real foundation, such that deprives people of their human dignity”