A group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of leading Nigeria 60 years in his five years of leadership of the country. The group in a statement in Abuja by the National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, and the National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf, noted that “as Nigerians observed a low key fifth year anniversary of the current administration headed by President Muhammadu Buhari, it has been observed that due to cumulative inaction and systemic inefficiency, Nigeria’s national security has become so endangered as thousands of Nigerians are slaughtered by all kinds of freelance armed hoodlums and terrorists whilst the Government has failed to put an end to these killings.”
The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), therefore, lamented that “the current government has dragged Nigeria backwards in terms of all identifiable human development indices by about 60 years or more.”
The Rights group said the state of human rights violations in the past five years has assumed epic proportions just as impunity, lawlessness and lack of respect for the sanctity of human life have become so widespread that much parts of Nigeria are currently in a state of civil war just as hundreds of armed mass killers are getting away with their dastardly acts of genocides waged against communities all across the Country with the North West and North East of Nigeria becoming killing fields.
In the Statement, the National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, and the National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf,  declared that it is laughable that whereas the federal government identifies the Boko Haram insurgency group as terrorists, it has rather chosen to treat armed Fulani herdsmen and the murderous attackers in the North West States of Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto as mere armed bandits. The Rights group decried that the statement by President Muhammadu Buhari describing the killings of Christians and farmers in Southern Kaduna by Armed Fulani herdsmen as a ‘revenge attacks’ does not communicate to the global community that the government is willing to crack down on all terrorists carrying out mass killings of Nigerians irrespective of their religious or Ethnic orientations.
HURIWA said it is sad that in the last five years, the current administration has treated with kid gloves cases of coordinated killings orchestrated and choreographed by armed Fulani herdsmen in Benue, Plateau, Enugu, Delta with the clear failure of either the Federal Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami, or the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to prosecute and punish armed Fulani herdsmen arrested with sophisticated weapons and paraded by the Nigeria Police in Abuja.
“We have a government that in the last five years has failed in the basic task of preventing mass killings and genocides. Sadly, whenever these suspected mass killers are arrested… these terrorists arrested with sophisticated weapons of mass destruction and paraded by the Inspector General of Police… the whole drama ends as showmanship just as the exact whereabouts of these paraded armed Fulani herdsmen are not disclosed to any one and the spate of killings have continued in an unending vicious circle of violent and blood cuddling attacks,” HURIWA stated.
The group also said that the killing of 74 Nigerians in Sabon Birnin Local Government Area Council of Sokoto State by over 100 armed terrorists could not have happened if the current administration had applied and deployed a single national template on counter terror war, noting that the dastardly act of killings of innocent villagers in Sokoto could not have happened had the current administration decisively prosecuted all suspected mass murderers rather than the policy of appeasement that the government has used.
HURIWA said that in the area of the economy, the current administration has unleashed the worst kind of mass poverty, unemployment and youth involvement in crimes that have never been seen ever before in recorded history.
“In the last five years, the nation’s manufacturing sector has suffered spectacular setbacks following the progressive collapses of strategic national infrastructures like electricity, federal roads network and maintenance of law and order.” HURIWA said. The group added: “the varying degradation of national infrastructures has resulted in the shutting down of industries and small and medium sized businesses thereby compounding the crisis of unemployment in Nigeria.”