The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at a meeting on Thursday decided on modalities to re-open and begin preparation for the conduit of governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states alter this year. The Commission, accordingly, outlined step by step protocol for the resumption of activities and operations as well as preparations for the conduct of the Edo and Ondo governorship elections and other pending Senatorial and State House of Assembly bye elections.
INEC in a statement by Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, indicated that Directors and other designated Staff of the various Departments will resume at the National Headquarters on Wednesday, May 24, after the decontamination of the premises and provision of necessary amenities.
The Commission indicated it will issue comprehensive guideline for the first phase of its resumption in compliance with the directives of the federal government and health authorities. The guidelines, Okoye said, will be posted on its notice boards and uploaded on the website of the Commission on Monday, May 11.
It was directed that only Staff below the age of 58 years with no serious underlying health issues will resume, while pregnant women, nursing mothers and all other staff with underlying health conditions should remain at home for the time being.
Okoye indicated that the Commission will work out modalities for the ramping up of activities in two of the states where INEC has Governorship elections (Edo and Ondo) and will liaise with the security agencies and health authorities on resumption of work in the two states as soon as possible.
It was further indicated that the Commission will resume engagement with political parties, civil society groups and organizations, the media and other stakeholders in relation to the Edo and Ondo governorship elections. The modalities for these engagements will be worked out and considered at its next meeting on May 14, Okoye said.
 
It was declared that at the end of the meeting on Thursday, the Commission made the following resolutions:
To carry out comprehensive decontamination of its National Headquarters, annex at Blantyre Street, the Electoral Institute and its Area 10 Office housing its staff clinic.
To follow the federal government guidelines on resumption protocols and procedure by providing infrared thermometers, soap and water at entrances and installing hand sanitizer dispensers at strategic points in the Commission.
To train its staff, particularly, the cleaners and office assistants on cleaning protocols and strict compliance with federal government guidelines as well as its own specific protocol for resumption.
These preparatory resumption measures will set the stage for arrangements to conduct the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states.
However, the Commission was silent on the issue of crowd control as contained in the federal government protocol in the efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus in Nigeria. Though, the governorship elections are to hold later in the year, electioneering signals at this stage of fight against coronavirus may stimulate breaches of control protocols during either political meetings or mini rallies, even the support mobilization process.
However, INEC could resolve all these during consultation with political parties and other stakeholders.