It is already ten years since Sani Kaita infamously got red-carded for a horrendous tackle against Greece player, VasilisTorosidis at the 2010 FIFA World Cup, hosted in South Africa.
The former Super Eagles midfielder has come out to lift the lids on the unfortunate event. Kaita revealed that he did not know what happened to him and cannot explain how he made that mistake that got him sent off.
“It was a very difficult moment for me and for footballing-loving Nigerians. Honestly, I don’t know what exactly happened at that time. I had to go back and watch the incident again on television. Up till today, I still cannot explain what happened, I still cannot forget it, I don’t know what happened”.
He added that, right from the U-20, to the U-23 and his days with the Super Eagles, it has never been in his character to be that violent on the pitch.
The former Kano Pillars midfielder begged Nigerians to forgive him. “I know Nigerians love football but I am hoping that they will forgive and forget. I am really hurt about it and I really hope it will not happen to any national team player”.
At the time Sani Kaita got red-carded, Nigeria was ahead by a goal, after Ike Uche had put the team ahead. After the midfielder’s dismissal, Greece restored parity ten minutes later through winger, Dimitris Salpingidis. In the 71st minute, the Greek team scored the winner through the man who got Kaitared-carded, Vasilis Torosidis.
The result meant Nigeria crashed out of the tournament after amassing two defeats in as many games against Argentina and the 2004 European champions. The Super Eagles went on to pick a draw against South Korea in their last group game.
Asked about the reaction of his team mates and coaches in dressing room after the game, he said “the lads supported me, the technical crew, coaches, officials all lifted me up. I’m still grateful for that because it was the toughest time of my life so far, which they supported me”.
Kaita received death threats for his mistake, while speaking said, “it was very difficult. At that time I was receiving messages (death), I don’t know how I can explain that. It was really tough for myself and my family”.
Sani Kaita was one of the unsung heroes of the 2005 World Youth Championship for Nigeria, where he played all seven games for Nigeria and secured a move to Sparta Rotterdam thereafter. He also won AFCON bronze medals in 2006 and 2010. He helped Nigeria clinch a silver medal at the 2008 Olympic Games.