Four youths from Niger state were on Tuesday arrested by operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Abeokuta for sneaking into the town on bikes despite the inter-state travel ban by the Federal Government.
Parading the youths in Abeokuta, the State Commandant of the Corps, Mr. Hammed Abodurin, said they were intercepted at Oke-Ilewo, Abeokuta at about 10:30 Tuesday for violating the State lockdown rules and for being in the public without using face masks and riding unregistered motorcycles.
Abodurin said, “Further interrogation showed that the youths who are from Niger State with their motorcycles. They claimed to have boarded a truck conveying foodstuff from Kotangora to Lagos, alighted at Ogere and continued the journey with their motorbikes to Abeokuta where they were arrested”.
The Commandant condemned drivers for using their trucks meant to convey food items to bring in people who do not have fixed addresses and means of livelihood to State.
He added that they would be handed over to the State Mobile Court for violating the lockdown and ban on inter-state travel for appropriate sanctions.
He decried the nonchalant attitude of the people for not obeying the sit-at-home order, but still move within the State, calling on his men to be vigilant and arrest violators as part of their efforts to curb the pandemic in the State.
Also speaking, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Sola Subair, reiterated the commitment of the government to protect the people at all times as well flatten the curve of the COVID-19 pandemic.
He warned that any person or group of people who enter the State, especially during this period of inter-state travel ban, would be returned back to their State.
Also, Mr Kunle Somorin, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dapo Abiodun said no matter where they hide or the means: air, road or through subterfuge, like in this case, by which these lawless people try to enter Ogun State, our law enforcement agencies would fish them out.
Responding to questions from newsmen, one of the youth, Ayuba Musa, aged 27, denied knowledge of the lockdown in the State and the ban on inter-state travel, saying they came from Niger State as a result of hunger to Abeokuta to make a living.
Others arrested are, Luda Joshua, 26, Amos Ibrahim, 25 and Samuel John, 30.