Boss Mustapha
        
 


 
There are emerging indications that the federal government is losing control over the spread of coronavirus in Nigeria. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, had at the briefing in Abuja on Friday raised alarm that the Nigerian government is running out of bed spaces at the various isolation centres in the most hut states or territories. It is becoming apparent that the federal government is subtly being overwhelmed by the spread of coronavirus despite over one month of lockdown in Lagos and Ogun states as well as the FCT, beside other states that joined the lockdown later. This emerging indicator is not unconnected with the over-concentration of intervention and control decisions and activities on the Presidential Task Force chaired by Boss Mustapha, which operates with minimal collaboration with state governments.
SGF Boss Mustapha had on Friday cried out that isolation and treatment centres in Nigeria are running out of bed spaces, though, adding that the government is intensifying efforts to increase the number of treatment centres in the country. Again, the SGF and PTF chairman is still not considering or including the state governments in addressing the shortage of facilities. This may also be part of the reason the PTF has been relatively slow, and is now getting overwhelmed by the spread of coronavirus across the country.
“We have received reports from the states, which suggests that the treatment centres are running out of bed spaces. As we assess the situation, the PTF shall also begin to examine our peculiar circumstances, modify the strategies for care management, and consider viable alternatives, where necessary. At the appropriate time, the guidelines and protocols shall be unfolded,” Boss Mustapha had stated.
Coronavirus infection figures has been on consistent rise over time. The lockdown did not even slow down the coronavirus infection rate in the country. The testing capacity has been low, health facilities are also inadequate. Yet, there are starts that can fund the acquisition of the required health facilities on their own.
But the Presidential Task Force wants to be issuing directives on everything than providing assistance to state governments to handle the corona-virus crisis within their jurisdiction.