The departure of the Brazil sensation Neymar from Camp Nou to Parc des Princes in a world transfer of £200 million deal in 2017 left the world football in awe.
Many Barcelona fans who were stunned by the transfer are yet to come to terms with Neymar decision to ditch Camp Nou since three years ago and they have continually wished to for the power to reverse the situation.
Barcelona fans cannot wait to have Neymar back
The disappointing feelings of most Barcelona fans have left an increasing talk of the past year or so that the forward could be heading back to Camp Nou.
Meanwhile, if the report reaching National Daily can be trusted, then there is good news for Barcelona fans as Neymar could finally be making his return to Catalonia.
National Daily has learnt that Barcelona boss Quique Setien has admitted he “would be delighted” to coach Neymar. This declaration has ramped up the audacious speculation of a move back to Camp Nou for the PSG star.
Quique Setien has admitted his desire to have Neymar in his squad
More interestingly for Barcelona fans, Setien has also hailed transfer target Lautaro Martinez as “extraordinary”, stating that the Inter Milan forward would “be very good” in his Barca side.
However, the desire of fans at Camp Nou to have Neymar back could be hampered by coronavirus pandemic given the financial hit clubs have taken, with PSG likely to want at least 180m euros (£161m) for the 28-year-old, who is contracted to the club for another two years.
But the unfair likely situation has not stop Setien talking up the chances of a reunion between Brazil talisman and Barcelona.
According to Setien it has been an honour to coach one of the world’s best players in Lionel Messi, and that he would welcome the chance to do the same with Neymar.
“Of course I would like to coach Neymar one day,” said the Spaniard in an interview with BeIn Sports.
“Fortunately I have been able to fulfill one dream of coaching the best player in the world in Leo. What is to come next, we will wait and see but I’m sure I would be delighted. How would I not be?”
This development meanwhile has left most Barcelona fans in wild ecstasy.