In a bid to complete the 2019/2020 EPL season which was sadly halted due to the coronavirus pandemic, the UK government and top football police have suggested that games should be played in neutral venues.
However, National Daily gathered that the above plan has been kicked against by many relegation-threatened clubs.
The preference for the Premier League is rather for all clubs to be able to play home and away if the competition resumes next month – and insists no club has asked for the curtailment of the season or the scrapping of relegation if it restarts.
Premier League shareholders discussed Project Restart during virtual talks on Monday, following the government’s new guidance on lockdown restrictions and top-level sport in England as early as next month behind closed doors until coronavirus vaccine is found National Daily further learnt.
“Everybody would prefer to play home and away if at all possible,” Masters said.
“It’s clear to see that some clubs feel more strongly about that than others. It is an ongoing dialogue and we’ve been talking to the authorities about the conditions in which we could get the Premier League back up and running and taking all that advice on board.
“We are working flat out to create a responsible, safe, and deliverable model to complete the season.
“No decisions will be made until after we have talked to players and managers and those meetings are scheduled for later this week.”
Masters says all 20 Premier League clubs remain committed to finishing the 2019/20 season and insisted no club has asked for the curtailment of this campaign or asked the Premier League to scrap relegation if the season does restart.
“If the season plays out, no-one has suggested, or talked about, relegation not being in play,” Masters said.
“There was a view that we were better together, better off talking through one voice and better off acting at all times like a collective. That was a unanimous view.
“Clubs came together today, I feel people can see the momentum”
He added: “It was the first time we discussed curtailment – it’s still our aim to finish the season obviously but it’s important to discuss all the options with our clubs.
“What I can say is that all of the talk was about finishing the season. No conclusions were reached on any other models. Those are future conversations we may need to have.”
.