Vitamin D from sunshine may be the game changer for curing the deadly COVID-19 pandemic as a new study has revealed that Vitamin D sufficiency might reduce the disease severity and death.
In a report published by Katie Weisman and the Children’s Health Defense Team, using high-dose of Vitamin D in COVID-19 patients on ventilators revealed improved outcomes including decreased mortality.
It stated that an initial data compiled in April from the Philippines on 212 confirmed COVID-19 patients showed that Vitamin D status was strongly associated with severity of COVID-19.
“The study confirmed what we know—that male patients, those over age 50, and those with pre-existing conditions were all significantly more likely to die of COVID-19.  However, the most dramatic finding was that patients with Vitamin D insufficiency (between 20 and 30 ng/ml) were 12.55 times more likely to die and patients with Vitamin D deficiency (<20ng/ml) were 19.12 times more likely to die from the disease than patients with sufficient Vitamin D.
“The key finding is that, even after controlling for age, sex and having a comorbidity, “When compared to cases with normal Vitamin D status, death was approximately 10.12 times more likely for Vitamin D deficient cases.”
It stated that a review paper (2020) investigating the potential links between Vitamin D status and risk of Influenza and COVID-19, pointed out that, “Through several mechanisms, Vitamin D can reduce the risk of infections. Those mechanisms include inducing cathelicidins and defensins that can lower viral replication rates and reducing concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines that produce the inflammation that injures the lining of the lungs, leading to pneumonia.”  Cathelicidins and defensins are molecules your body produces to protect you against bacteria, viruses and fungi and modulate your immune system.”
According to the report, currently only Remdesivir, at a potential price of $4500 per patient, has been FDA approved for severe cases of COVID-19, but by contrast, Vitamin D is free from the sun and widely available.
“It is inexpensive in typical supplements and costs about $100 for a typical IV formulation which may be needed for patients with kidney disease.  It is manufactured around the globe and is not subject to patent restrictions,” the report stated.
“Its safety is well-established and understood.  If Vitamin D can reduce severity of COVID-19, it is a potential game-changer.  Taking the pressure off of hospitals and health care workers, protecting our elderly, veterans and prisoners, and preventing a resurgence of hospitalizations and deaths are all on the table.”
“Vitamin D from sunshine is free and regular exposure for 20 minutes a day this time of year will provide about 1000 IU for people living in mid-latitudes who expose about 30% of their body surface,” it added.