The desire of most Barcelona fan is to have their erstwhile player and manager Pep Guardiola return to Nou Camp.
The Spaniard left a remarkable record to be envied at Barcelonaboth as a player and manager.
It wouldn’t be completely out of place to say that Guardiola’s exit marked the beginning of the end of Barcelona’s dominance in the European football as the Blaugrana have failed to add to UEFA Champions League trophy cabinet after his departure.
Barcelona won 14 trophies – including three league titles and the Champions League twice – during Guardiola’s reign before he left in 2012.
However, reports reaching National Daily reveal that most the Barcelona fans wish of having Guardiola back at Nou Camp can come to fruition as  Joan Laporta will attempt to recall the City manager back to Barcelona if his push to return as president of the club in 2021 is successful.
Laporta was Barcelona’s president from 2003 to 2010 and was at the helm when Guardiola was promoted to manager of the senior team in 2008.
Laporta appointed Guardiola as the coach of Barca B and then promoted him to the first team job in 2008
Notably, Guardiola is under contract at the Etihad until June 2021 and Barcelona’s elections are due that summer.
Laporta speaking on the Catalan station TV3 maintained that he is poised for a return as presidential candidate of the Catalans giant.
“I’m working to introduce myself as a presidential candidate,” Laporta was quoted as saying on. “I’ve been president before and I’m excited to be back.
“I would very much like Guardiola to come back but now he is at City and it is a decision that Pep should take. He is a benchmark for Barcelona and many Catalans would like him to coach Barça again. At the right time, I will speak to the person we think should be a Barça coach from 2021.”
Similarly, National Daily recalls that Pep’s father Valenti Guardiola once hinted on a possible return of his son to Barcelona while swiftly pointing out that the decision is however his son’s to make.
Meanwhile, Pep himself who many have touted to make a return to Spain has recently pointed out that he will not walk out then despite Uefa handing City a two-year ban from European competition for breaching financial fair play rules, a ruling the club have appealed against.