She has toiled for years towards unique success. She has always been focused but never lobby or beg for recognition. She works hard to make a difference in her music career. Then, her hard work, performance uniqueness, self-discipline, perseverance elevated her to the top brass of Christian songs and Gospel music in Nigeria, and the international community. Her recognition rolls social platforms of evaluation which culminated in the winning of multiple awards in Gospel Music. This is the adventure of a Nigerian Songwriter and Gospel Musician, Sinach. She emerged the first Black African to rise to top the USA Billboard Christian song writer for seven weeks.
The Nigerian Multi Award winning Gospel music singer and Songwriter, Sinach, in addition to being the first black African to top the USA Billboard Christian song writer for seven weeks, made additional unique top-flight in having two covers of her song, “Way Maker” by Michael W. Smith; and “Leeland” in the top 10 Hot Christian Songs chart.
The USA Billboard acknowledged that  “this is the first time in the history of the Hot Christian songs, that two versions of the same song have been enlisted simultaneously in the top 10. Leeland’s version hops from #13 to #9, while Michael W. Smith’s version moves 3 places to #3.”
Sinach has other titles that are on hotline views across the world. Apparently, these two versions are not the only on the chart: Mandisa’s version currently stands at no. 38; while Passion is at no. 39. Furthermore, on Youtube, Sinach’s original version of “Way Maker” currently stands as the second most viewed song from Africa with over 148 million views, and most viewed Gospel in Africa. The Nigerian Gospel Singer was classified by Pulse.ng as Female Artist of the Decade, Female Gospel Artist of the Decade and also listed in the top 10 Artists of the Decade.
Sinach’s Instagram Billboard indicated that her rise to stardom has been superlative, spanning a musical career of 30 years with 9 studio albums and hundreds of songs. She recently released “All Things Are Ready” and was featured in a worship single by Ada Ehi titled, “Fix My Eyes on You”.
Sinach has an established personage of tremendous unimaginable achievements unrivaled in Africa by no gospel or secular artist. Sinach subsequently consolidates herself as the MVP of gospel music in Africa. Her hit, “Way Maker” stands as the biggest cross over song from Africa in recent times.
Meanwhile, it would appear Sinach has not started yet; but has laid solid foundation and bright clout for mega global feats.