Senator Ishaku Abbo, represent inf Adamawa North Senatorial District under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party has warned the governor of his state, Ahmadu Fintiri to stop the deceiving the people of the state.
In a statement issued by his special assistant on media, Michael Bolgent, Abbo accused the governor of claiming that the transformers donated by North-East Development Commission (NEDC) to Garkida Community were as a result of his the lobbies.
“Contrary to their claim, it was Senator Ishaku Abbo – SIA who is the only Adamawa Senator in the Committee of Special Duties under which North-East Development Commission (NEDC) and National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) are domiciled who facilitated the transformers.
“In gratitude, Senator Ishaku Abbo on the 4th of May, 2020 took to his official social media handle to appreciate the management of NEDC for approving the purchase and release of the transformers and also appreciating the good citizens who called his attention and asked him for help.
“Fintiri should, therefore, concentrate on working for the People of Adamawa in Adamawa with the huge monies he is receiving from the Government and he should let senators work in their own committees for the people.
“Recall, that NEDC gave the approval of over four hundred and thirty million Naira (N430, 000, 000) to reconnect electricity from Mararaba Mubi to Limankara in Madagali Local Government Area, covering forty-six (46) communities. When Fintiri got tipped of the information, He went and brought the Engineer working on Toungo Electricity to climb poles deceiving the poor masses that he is the one doing the project, stopping NEDC from coming to work.
“It is no longer news to Adamawa people that he was arraigned on June 30, 2016, for allegedly defrauding the state by laundering money to the tune of N1.9 billion through his naira and dollar bank accounts. In the same vein, he was also accused of making large cash payment for the purchase of landed property in Abuja, and Taraba (specifically Mambilla Highland Farm) during the time he served as acting Governor of Adamawa State. Though we are yet to hear or read if the case is closed. This is a story for another day.
“Today, when the NEDC was delivering the transformers to Garkida Community, Fintiri sent the Commissioner for rural Rehabilitation who joined the convoy on the road, falsely claiming to be the one that got the transformers for them. Fintiri should STOP THIS SCAM!!”