As duo celebrate anniversary

The Speaker, Lagos House of Assembly and Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, Rt. Hon. ( Dr.) Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, has congratulated both President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on their fifth-year and first-year in office respectively.

Obasa in his congratulatory message to mark May 29, 2020, the day President Buhari and Governor Sanwo-Olu were inaugurated to their respective offices for their fifth and first terms, said both have kept faith with the people.

“The President has been able to pull  the country back from precipice that it was almost falling  in 2015.

“Today, in the areas of insecurity, economy and war against corruption, the country may not be where it should be, but it  has certainly left where it was five years ago.

“Your purposeful leadership in the last five years has steered the country in the right direction,” the Speaker said.

Obasa also used the occasion of the fifth year anniversary of the president to thank him once again for signing  the Executive Order 10, which grants financial autonomy to state legislatures and state  judiciaries.

“Let me also use this occasion to congratulate our governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu on his first year anniversary in government.

“You have proved to the doubting Thomases that you are actually the man for the job,” he said.

Obasa said Governor Sanwo-Olu came prepared for the job with his six-point agenda referred to as THEMES, which is an acronym for, Transportation and Traffic Management; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; Making Lagos a 21st century economy and Entertainment and Tourism.

“Mr. Governor’s handling of COVID-19 pandemic which has been applauded both nationally and internationally is also a true  testimony of your leadership qualities.

“On behalf of members and staff of Lagos House of Assembly, I wish both President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu a resounding success in their remaining years in office,” Obasa said.