The Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, on Monday denied a report which claims that the Nigerian telecommunications’ industry was at the verge of switching to 5G network.
In a statement signed by NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, NCC Executive Vice Chairman, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said the claim which came from some “faceless individuals or groups cannot be further from the truth.”
While acknowledging that the agency had in November 2019 approved a trial test for 5G for a period of three months and the trial has been concluded and installation decommissioned, Prof. Dambatta said NCC has not issued any license for 5G network in Nigeria.
The statement reads: “The attention of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has been drawn to a mischievous statement making the rounds on social media like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, LinkedIn and other sites that the Nigerian telecoms industry is going to switch on Fifth Generation (5G) in Lagos this Sunday, 10th, Monday, 11th or Tuesday, 12th May, 2020.
“Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, said that, ‘’the trial among others was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present. Relevant stakeholders including members of the security agencies were invited to participate during the trial.
The Commission also provided clarifications on the laying of fibre optic cables within Lagos and other parts of the country to the effect that the laying of additional fibre optic cables is to strengthen the existing 3G and 4G infrastructure to provide robust and pervasive telecoms infrastructure to improve network performance.
“NCC has not issued any licence for 5G in Nigeria and therefore, the mobile network operators (MNOs) cannot switch on such technology. NCC is technology-neutral. As such, we don’t license technology but assigns spectrum to operators for deployment of any service when allocated by National Frequency Management Council (NFMC).
“As the telecoms regulator, we enjoin Nigerians to get accurate information from us rather than relying on information emanating from social media by some individuals out of ignorance to misinform our people,” Danbatta said