Clarence Peters’s girlfriend, Jennifer Alegiebuno has given her own account on the events surrounding the untimely demise of a video vixen, Kodak who died about 1 week ago.

Alegiebuno who in an Instagram post stated that she has dated Clarence Peters for 14 years, condemned the wrong information being peddled around by some Nigerians.

She said that Kodak died as a result of an upsurge in the power voltage which perhaps blew her phone and electrocuted her to death as she powered the phone.

Initial reports have it that Kodak died in Clarence Peters’ house, but the latter’s girlfriend has stated that Clarence was not in the house at the time of the incident.

Alegiebuno explained that police officers came immediately after Kodak’s incident and investigated the explosion scene after which the cause of her death was adjudged as an accident.

She said that she was shocked when the same police detained Clarence Peters and turned the case to murder.

Alegiebuno accused one DCP Yetunde Longe of tearing the initial report of the investigation which exonerated her boyfriend and ordering another one.

Speaking further, she said that the Police tore the report when the latter discovered that the suspect (Clarence Peters) and his father are celebrities.

Her words, “So, as Clarence’s 14yrs long girlfriend, Lemme state AUTHORITATIVELY that CLARENCE PETERS was invited to police command, YABA and he went there willingly.

“He was NOT arrested, neither was he CHARGED WITH MURDER as stated by the press statement from the police command through their spokesperson BALA ELKANA!

“Just because we chose to keep quiet until the autopsy result comes out before addressing the press and of course the police report to exonerate him was signed and collected.

“On Friday 2nd of May, 2020 an investigative team led by IPO, MR. POPOOLA, after the on-scene investigation was done, the body visited at the morgue, came to a conclusion they had no case with CLARENCE PETERS (who was not on the scene of the incident).

“…SEGUN the business manager, the 4dancers and two other members of staff of CAPITAL DREAMS PICTURES, (all referred to as witnesses), that it was a NATURAL ACCIDENT.

“He [MR. POPOOLA ] wrote his report to that effect. Events took a different turn when The DCP- YETUNDE LONGE, came in and asked that the report be torn, he [Papoola] wrote a second one that she tore again.

“By the third report, then came in MR. OYE and his father Sir Shina Peters and she [YETUNDE LONGE] couldn’t continue with her foul play.


“She [YETUNDE LONGE] agreed they had NO CASE with him and the rest of the witnesses. ‘So why are u still holding him..’ everyone asked, she said she was waiting for the autopsy result so she can attach it.

“When she [YETUNDE LONGE] saw she had been caught, she sent them to put out a press statement that he [Clarence] was charged for murder. So, thinking Nigerians, can someone be “CHARGED” without an autopsy conducted?”