FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, in his claimed vision to “project African football to the top of the world,” which was aimed at the development of football competitions and infrastructure in Africa has proposed a 4-year AFCON competition away from the usual 2-years interval.
This proposal has however divided several African stars. While Ivory Coast legend Didier Drogba and the 2016 African Footballer Year Riyad Mahrez backed the proposal some others like four time African Footballer of Year winner Samuel Eto’o have jettison the proposal. For Drogba, the move would help increase the flavour and rarity of the trophy
“I think we’re going to have to get to that point playing in the Africa Cup of Nations every four years because the player is quite disadvantaged in relation to his club, and given that there are a lot of African players now playing in Europe, it complicates things a bit,” Drogba said.
Similarly, Mahrez in an Instagram Live interview with BeIN Sports journalist on Monday feels that the 4-year proposal will enhance respect for African football.
“Let’s make AFCON once every four years and in the summer. We loved Egypt, it wasn’t too hot. Every two years and in winter, that is why African football is not respected.”
However, Eto’o viewing differently believes that the proposal would not be in the best interest of the continent.
“Is it in the interest of Africans to organise the AFCON every four years? I think it’s more like the Europeans,” Eto’o told Radio France International.
“They want to have Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mané or Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang at their disposal.”
Meanwhile, Eto’o, is not alone in this diverse view of the proposal as three ex-Super Eagles stars kicking against the 4-year proposal pointed out that there is no need trying to emulate the Europeans.
“The two-year plan is much better for the AFCON. That has been the norm for the competition. I don’t think that we should follow the Europeans or adopt their style because it won’t suit us well,” ex-Eagles keeper Ike Shorunmu, who featured at three AFCON tournaments, said.
Ex-Super Eagles defender, Gbenga Okunowo, who featured at the 2000 AFCON, in his reaction told The PUNCH that African football needs to be a par with the European football before the consideration for such proposal.
“We have to bring our football up to the level of the Europeans if we must change it from two years to four years. There is no need for that now. We must not always adopt policies to please the Western world.
While for Elderson Echiejile, a member of the 2013 AFCON-winning squad:
“The tournament no doubt affects African players joining top teams if you consider the number of weeks they will be away from the team. So, that alone scares big clubs from African players, but overall, I still think CAF should stick to the two-year plan rather than the proposed four years.”