The Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVBF) has donated palliatives to the 37 states associations’ in order to cushion the effects of the Corona Virus (COVID-19) Pandemic,National Daily learnt.
The Chairperson NVBF welfare committee, Professor Florence Adeyanju disclosed this to newsmen in Kaduna on Wednesday.
Professor Adeyanju said palliatives became necessary due to the difficulties players are passing through in the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Professor of Human Kinetics said the palliative donated is courtesy the President of Nigeria Volleyball Federation, Engineer Musa Nimrod.
She said, “The reason behind the palliatives is due to the difficulties the players are passing through in their respective states. We are all aware that many of the players are neither working nor under the payroll of any organization, while few of the players that are working are not earning a substantial amount of money.
“The palliative sent to the 37 states associations’ is courtesy the President of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation. The President of the NVBF who is also the Zonal Representative of the North West on the board decided to extend the palliative to other zones because of the hardship experienced by players who are the main actors of the game”.
Reacting to the palliatives, the chairman of Kwara State Volleyball Association, Chief Bashorun Bankole commended the federation for donation to the 37 associations.
He said the palliative will help in strengthen the ties between the Federation and the grassroots players.
Bankole said, “Immediately I received the palliatives from the Federation, I swing into action by calling my Vice Chairman who I informed about the kind gesture. The intention of the association is to add some amount of money and buy some food stuffs in order to distribute to players who have no means of income during this COVID-19 pandemic.
“We must commend the federation for remembering the 37 states associations’ members when all chips”.
The Sokoto state volleyball association, Umar Samba lauded the decision of the NVBF members and the Zonal Representative of the North West, Eng Musa Nimord for the unexpected gesture during the COVID-19 lockdown.
He said, “on behalf of Sokoto state volleyball association, I want to say a big thank you to the NVBF members especially our zonal representative on the board, Engineer Musa Nimrod for their initiative during this lockdown.
“Most of the players have been finding it difficult to fend by one another during this lockdown; but this palliative from the federation will go a long way in alleviating hunger”.
A board member, Aminu Kolore and the General Secretary NVBF, Alhaji Adamu Maikano said the leadership of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation will continue to support the growth, development and most importantly the players of the game.