The Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, has placed the mother of late Super Eagles striker, Rashidi Yekini, Alhaja Sikiratu, on  a monthly stipend,National Daily learnt.
The Representative of the Minister at the donation ceremony, Olaitan Shittu, disclosed this in Ijagbo, near Offa in Kwara on Wednesday, when he donated Ramadan gifts on behalf of the Minister to the aged mother.
The Sports Minister, Mr Sunday Dare, also donated the sum of N50,000 as part of the Ramadan gifts to the aged matriarch on Wednesday.
Shittu explained that it was not the first time the Minister was reaching out to Alhaja Sikiratu Yekini as he was also at Mama Yekini’s residence in September, 2019.
Responding, Alhaja Yekini who spoke in her local dialect (Yoruba), thanked the Minister and prayed fervently for him.
“I have been abandoned for a long time and have not seen any help from anyone.
“I was hospitalised for few days, some months ago and I did cater for myself despite scarce resources, even last month, I received treatment from the hospital.
“I need help from Nigerians, but this Minister has done very well, especially remembering me in this holy month of Ramadan.
“Since my son died, it has been very tough for me because I do not have any help from people. Rashidi’s siblings are not doing well too, so, I was left to struggle for life everyday,” Alhaja Sikiratu Yekini said.
Late Rashidi Yekini who died eight years ago in Ibadan after retiring from football, had his professional career span more than two decades and was mainly associated with Vitória de Setúbal in Portugal, but he also played in six other countries besides Nigeria.
Yekini scored 37 goals as a Nigerian international from 58 games and represented the nation in five major tournaments, including two World Cups where he scored the country’s first-ever goal in the competition against Bulgaria in the USA 94 World Cup.
He was also named the African Footballer of the Year in 1993.
Items donated include, 50kg bag of rice, 10kg bag of wheat, six tins of Milo as well as the sum of N50,000.