The Overseer of Winners Chapel, Living Faith Ministry, Bishop David Oyedepo, on Wednesday raised red alarm of perceived suspicion of grand plot against Christians in Nigeria with the continuous closure of churches by the government. Bishop Oyedepo in a live broadcast of Covenant Hour of Prayer programme of the Church on Wednesday morning held at the Church headquarters in Otta, Ogun State, pointed out that the continuous closure of Churches in the country as part of measures to stop the spread of Coronavirus virus, is a grand plot to stop the spread of the Church in the country.
The renowned Bishop declared: “I can smell a rat behind the closure of Churches. The Lord spoke to me about it. It’s part of moves to stop the Church from spreading.”
 
He chided those imposing  restrictions om Church activities; asserting that the growth and expansion of the Church is one of the greatest headache of the devil.
Oyedepo remarked that no civilization has taken place in history without the influence of the Church.
The Bishop further declared: “How do you have the markets open and the Churches remain closed? Which one is more organized?
“The devil is surely targeting the people, but God’s words say I shall build my Church and the gates of hell shall not prevail.
“Any gang up against the Church shall surely fail. The devil and his agents shall surely pay for this.”
The Bishop maintained that every soul is precious to God. He remarked that it is not logical for hospitals where people die every day to remain open, while the Church where people get saved and healed are closed.
Bishop Oyedepo stated: “It’s wrong to continue to have the Churches closed. It’s an upside-down way of looking at things.
“I declare that the world is free, and the nations are liberated from continuous lockdown.”
He encouraged Christians to remain fervent in their faith and not forsake fellowships with other brethren either at home or in the Church.
Oyedepo warned that it is dangerous for any Christian to stay away from fellowship and not constantly hear the word of God and allow it to impact his/her daily live.