Manchester City successfully retained their EPL title exactly a year ago from today.
The Citizens achieved the feat on the final day of a thrilling 2018/2019 season beating the Seagulis at the Amex Stadium.
It is commendable to note that City, who trailed Liverpool by as many as seven points before beating their rivals in early January, came from behind at Brighton to seal a comfortable a 4-1 victory and with it the 2018-19 EPL title was retained.
Remarkably, that became the fourth Premier League title for Man City – who also lifted the trophy in 2011-12, 2013-14 and 2017-18 – and a considerable relief after the lead changed hands more than 30 times during the course of a captivating race.
They are the first team to win back-to-back titles since Manchester United in 2009, while Liverpool amassed the most points of any runner-up in top-flight history.
At the start of this week last year, Liverpool’s final game of the Premier League season looked to be little but an exercise in futility.

Supporters were doing their best to shake off the disappointment of Manchester City’s edgy win over Leicester, preparing themselves to show appreciation for a remarkable league campaign no matter the outcome.
But there, at the back of minds, remained the what-ifs, the contemplation of a 30th year without a league title, and the bitter disappointment of another trophy-less season.
The Reds pain of marginal defeats to Manchester United and Manchester City in 2009 and 2014 respectively has yet to fully subside, while a 97-point second-placed finish last year would be hard to take.
Fast forward to today in the present year, Liverpool were again poised to redeem their hope of winning the EPL title notably after their bitter experience of relinquishing the title to Manchester City last year, but for the halting of the league season due to coronavirus pandemic.
However, with the Project Restart in view, Liverpool fans are anxious to finally claim the EPL title after 30 years in wait. Credit goes to their 25 points margin away from their closest rival City with just nine games left. They are hopeful that the 2019/2020 season resumes as speculated come June 1, 2020.