After the Coalition of United Political Parties alleged the leadership of the House Reps took $10 million in bribe from Microsoft founder Bill Gates to legislate for compulsory Covid-19 vaccination, another group has hit the lower house again with a similar allegation.
The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) said the house leadership took another bribe from Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers.
The CNPP warned that “it’s about time for the National Assembly got a dose of the Nigerian people’s wrath.”
In a statement signed by its Secretary-General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, the group also accused the lawmakers of hiding under the lockdown measures to engage in impunity.
“We have watched with uttermost dismay the speed with which the lawmakers are working on a bill to use Nigerians as guinea pigs for the forced testing of Coronavirus disease vaccines and endanger the lives of over 200 million citizens,” the statement read.
“If the lawmakers want to truly justify the bribe they have taken from foreign producers of COVID-19 vaccines, they should make a law that will provide for compulsory vaccination of all the legislators in the country as a way of proving their patriotism to the Nigerian federation. Let them volunteer to be the guinea pigs,” CNPP said.
According to the CNPP, it seems curious the Nigerian lawmakers have not made any move to put in place a law to force electricity distribution companies in the country to compulsorily install prepaid meters in households across the country but can force citizens to be vaccinated.
“Why not a Bill for an Act to compel Federal Government of Nigeria to fund research for local production of infectious disease drugs and vaccines? Are we lacking experts in any field as a country?”
It answered its own question by concluding the lawmakers won’t make such move because such local inventors cannot afford millions of US dollars with which to grease the filthy palms of most lawmakers.
“The Republic of Madagascar recently dared the World Health Organization (WHO) and their collaborators by developing locally made COVID Organics (CVO) for cure of Coronavirus. Right now, the use is expanding to other countries after Madagascar had only 149 cases of COVID-19 with zero death record,” CNPP said.
“In addition to the COVID Organics (CVO), already being marketed in the form of herbal tea in Madagascar, a new injectable solution of the same product is under clinical trials in the lying off the country southeastern coast of Africa with a population of just 27 million people.
“It then beats the imagination of any sane person that the Nigerian legislators will be this greedy for material acquisition, even at the expense of the Nigerian people who elected them.
“All Nigerians, the media, and all civil society organisations with good conscience should immediately stand up against this evil legislation in the works because everyone will become their guinea pigs and a tool for testing vaccines for deadly all ailments, now and forever if the bill is passed.
“May be Nigerians have forgotten so soon how a secret trial of a pharmaceutical drug in Northern Nigeria killed several children. The company involved, Pfizer, was sued after 11 children died in the clinical trial when the northern state of Kano was hit by meningitis epidemic in 1996. But Pfizer only paid compensation after 15-year legal battle for illegal clinical trials.
“The intolerable Bill for an Act by the Nigerian legislators to make such killing of citizens a legal act must be resisted now or we will all die in like manner someday soon”, the CNPP warned.