The Inspector General of Police, IGP M. A. Adamu, has condemned the attack on a police officer by woman while on official duty in Oyo State. The IG ccommended the DCO II, Eruwa Police Division, ASP Adeyemo Ogunyemi, for his uncommon restraint and professionalism in the face of unprovoked attack as shown in a viral video where a woman identified as Kehinde Afolake was seen assaulting him unchallenged and without retaliation, while he was carrying out the COVID-19 enforcement duties at Gbolagunte, Okeola area of Eruwa, Ibarapa, Oyo State on 1st May, 2020. The IG remarked that the officer, like a lamb being led to the slaughter, did not fight back but rather, maintained absolute calm, patience and decorum even as the woman rough handled him and slapped him severally.
The IG in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, DCP Frank Mba, said that the woman also assaulted two female police officers, Inspector Ojola Abiola and Inspector Queen Eguaoje and gave one of them human bite on Saturday, 2nd May, 2020 during an attempt to invite her to the Police Station for the earlier incident of serious assault on the DCO.
“The Ewura incident thus is a classic example of unprovoked, unwarranted and unnecessary attacks faced by police officers in the course of performing their legitimate duties;” the IGP noted, warming  that this trend will no longer be tolerated by the Force.
The IGP noted that since the commencement of the COVID-19 enforcement duties, a total of 27 police personnel have suffered series of attacks and assaults from members of the public at different times and different locations. Many of these officers, he stated, are still in hospitals receiving treatment from the injuries sustained during such attacks. The officers were identified to include a female police officer, PC Ngozi Nkem, in Agbor, Delta State who was seriously assaulted when a police team was dispersing a group of persons holding a birthday party in clear disobedience to the social restrictions and distancing orders. “Apart from the attack on the person of police officers, some of these citizens have equally carried out attacks on police assets and facilities. For example, two police stations and police quarters were attacked and burnt down in Katsina and Abia States  while 15 police vehicles/motorcycles were also damaged,” IG Adamu declared.
Meanwhile, the IGP has directed the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, to carry out a discreet investigation into the Ewura attack on the police officers and ensure that justice is done.
The IGP appealed to citizens to continue to cooperate with the police and other security personnel and voluntarily comply with all COVID-19 prevention orders. He reassured that the Force shall continue to hold officers accountable and mete out commensurate punishments on any personnel who violates the rights of the citizens. He, however, warned against any unprovoked attack and assault on police officers while in the course of their duties as perpetrators will be made to face the full wrath of the law.