The supremacy war between two key allies of National leader of the All Progress Congress, (APC) Bola Tinubu, Speaker of the Lagos state National Assembly, the Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa and the Senator representing Lagos East Adebayo Sikiru Oshinowo has taken a new twist as the Obasa group has taken steps to move into Kosofe local government area, the strong hold of Oshinowo.
Developments in the last three months in the once peaceful and united Tinubu owned “Mandate Group” political family in Kosofe LGA in particular and Lagos State in general, revealed that the enormous powers wielded by Oshinowo, an Italian trained expert dredger has been thrown into the Lagos Lagoon, as the Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa camp dealt “Peperrito” as Oshinowo is fondly called two devastating political cutting to size big blows within a week.
The first was the reversal of the impeachment of the Deputy Leader Ikosi Isheri Legislative Arm, Hon. Folashade Oluranti Akinpelu, whose political leader Hon. Rotimi Agunsoye is in the camp of the Lagos Speaker Obasa, on Monday, May 11, 2020, the impeachment was instigated by Oshinowo foster daughter, Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada the Executive Chairman Of Ikosi Isheri LCDA.
Presently Lagos Assembly official records are flying in the media space daily, detailing financial malfeasances, misappropriations, misconducts, abuse of office and breach of public trust among other infractions by Obasa, these image damaging reports are said to be sponsored by Team Pepperito’s camp.
Team Obasa camp in Peperrito’s Kosofe political domain this medium gathered consist of the Chairman on House Committee on Information, Strategy and Security, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, Representing Kosofe Constituency ll and Hon Rotimi Agunloye Kosofe Federal Constituency. While Team Pepper consist of Hon. Sanni Okanlawon, Kosofe 1, Executive Chairman of Agboyi Ketu LCDA Mayor Dele Oshinowo and Ikosi Isheri LCDA boss Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada.
The second blow from Team Obasa was the non-confirmation of a nominee for Lagos State Audit Board Commision, Hon. Abiodun Akhigbe. Akhigbe is a protégé of Oshinowo, this has further reinforced the war between the two Teams and this war may not abate in the immediate future and gladiators dig in deeper. Hon Akhigbe is reportedly being positioned by Oshinowo for the Kosofe State Constituency 2, or the Federal House of Representatives ticket.
The persuasion of both the Kosofe Local Government Area Chairman Hon. Babatunde Sofola and that of the Lagos State Commissioner for Employment and Wealth Creation, Hon. Yetunde Arobieke is yet undetermined. Team Pepper has vowed to fight Team Obasa to the end and also take the fight to Agege Local Government Area political base of Speaker Obasa most shortly.
This war many believed was instigated by Bola Ahmed Tinubu their godfather and “capo de tuti”, to cut his power drunk boys to size, as a strategy to run them down and out eventually, for the emergence of new political recruits in the build up to his 2023 presidential goal.