By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2 in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Jude Idimogu, emerged as the new Lagos Apex Leader of Igbos in All Progressives Congress (APC).

Idimogu, who is the Chairman House Committee On Wealth Creation, was unanimously endorsed by all the Eze Ndigbos in the state, at the Ohanaeze  Ndigbo state Secretariat in Surulere, Lagos.

The selection was ratified by  virtually all the Eze Ndigbos in Lagos, topmost amongst which are; the Chairman of all Ezes,Eze Christian Nwachukwu,Eze Guy Nwajiofor (Ajeromi),Eze Ofordile Nwajei,Eze Dr. Orji Okafor,Eze Nnaemeka Agbo,Eze Ohaegbo Policap,Eze Ohazuluike Omereoha and host of others.

The lawmaker while speaking with journalists after the endorsement, explained that the Ohanezes felt Igbos were marginalized by some people who claimed to be leaders of Igbos in the state.

Idimogu added ” The Ohanezes have viewed and screened me and they see that I am someone who has the interest of the Igbos in Lagos State at heart.

“The truth is I have not been happy towards the Igbos performance in APC in Lagos State especially during election.

“Every success of a party lies in the leadership. I know quite well that the position is for me. Now, I’m ready to take the bull by the horn.

“Most Igbos tend to vote against our party because the leadership don’t reach them on time. And my people are very proud people who are self dependent that cannot be lured or bribed. Now is the time to win them over by giving them reason why they should support the party and not wait till election is close before we go to them and win them over”, said Idimogu

He added “Every success of a party lies in the leadership. I know quite well that the position is for me. Now, I’m ready to take the bull by the horn.
“Most Igbos tend to vote against our party because the leadership don’t reach them on time. And my people are very proud people who are self dependent that cannot be lured or bribed.

“Now is the time to win them over by giving them reason why they should support the party and not wait till election is close by before we go to them and win them over.

The lawmaker stressed “Now that I’ve emerged as the Ndigbo I am particular about sacrifice because that is what leadership is all about.
” I am ready to sacrifice for my people and I’m here to protect their right. I also want them to know that nothing goes for nothing. They should obey the laws of the land because we are strangers in the land and we do not argue with the fact. We also have to thank our in-law the Yoruba who are very accommodating.

“You can’t be progressing in a State and not support the ruling party. I have their interest in mind, their welfare and concern is what I have to intervene for with the government and also they should expect something from the government as well.

“This is why you need leaders that are accountable and open minded, who put you first before any other thing. If I leave the State today I will return to the Eastern State that is the more reason why I should make sure they are protected”.

In a phone interview with National Daily Eze Christian Nwachukwu affirmed the development, noting that Idimogu being the only Igbo man who won election twice in Lagos deserves to take the mantle of leadership.

“Idimogu is the only one to have won elective position twice and also married to a Yoruba woman from Ijebu Ode,Lady Roselyn Idimogu, who has been very supportive to the Ndigbos course in the state.

“We give it to him, the government have prior to now been complaining about Ndigbos disservice and we are out to right that wrong.

“Idimogu who represents Oshodi Isolo constituency 2 has credibility at the state,local government and ward level, he deserves it and he has effectively taken the reins of power as Apex leader from Joe Igbokwe.” Nwachukwu affirms.

The President Ohanaeze Ndigbo Lagos,Chief Solomon Ogbonna who noted that the body is apolitical insist that once the All Progressives Congress Ndigbos decides in favour of Idimogu so be it.

He however,notes his resolve as the number one Ndigbo in Lagos to ensure APC gets a better deal from Ndigbos in the state,stressing that their decision to be on the side of the opposition has done them more harm than good.

“I will ensure all Ndigbos in Lagos state supports APC,though Ohanaeze is apolitical we can command and teleguide others to do a bidding we see as beneficial to all.

“Idimogu came to pay allegiance to me as the face of Ndigbos in Lagos but I believe it will help him a lot if he teams up with Igbos in APC,once they chose him it is okay.
“This will be the first time Igbo people embrace APC, when I raced Sanwoolu’s hand in the presence of many,charging them to stop being on the defensive due to the reference that they were guest and not landlords in the state.

“My own is that every Igbo man must embrace APC, because they are the ruling party both at the state and national,any Igbo that refuse to accept this is on his own,as you can only force a horse to the river,you cannot force to drink water.

“Lagos Ndigbos have benefited what they have never benefited 20-30 years ago, we were able to do empowerment for over 100 widows.
“Sanwoolu gave palliatives to Ohanaeze,it took us one week to distribute it,we had 26,400 people benefitting at the end of the day,even Hausas and Yorubas were not left out in the largesse,we gave it to all.

“We should not be outside the ruling party any longer,we have suffered greatly for in time past.” He said.