By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos

The Plateau State Police Command on Sunday said it has rescued two kidnap victims from the net of their abductors, as well as arrest one of the kidnap kingpin identified as Ali Mohammed.

It would be recalled that on Saturday 16 May 2020 at around 12am local time, a lecturer with the department of Social Science Education in the University of Jos, Dr Kennedy Drenkat, was shot dead by unknown gunmen in his house and   his six years old daughter taken away by the gunmen.

However in a swift response a combined team of conventional Policemen, swung into action engaged the kidnappers on a gun battle and rescued the six-year old alongside other victims.

Briefing newsmen in Jos, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Edward Chuka Egbuka, said, “immediately the command received the information on the same date at about 0530 hours, a combined team of conventional policemen, Police Mobile Force, operatives from Anti-Kidnapping Unit, vigilante groups and hunters were deployed to the hilly areas where the kidnapped victim was suspected to have been kept, scene was thoroughly combed. In the process, the kidnappers were sighted on the hill.

“In the ensuing gun duel between the operatives and the kidnappers, one of the kidnappers name Ali Mohammed ‘m’ of Narabi was shot on his right leg and was arrested with one AK 47 rifle with breach Number 1984/AP 0240.29 rounds of live ammunition were also recovered from him. A kidnapped victim name Chibuzo Joseph ‘m’ was rescued unhurt while other bandits fled with blood injuries.


“On interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime.  Case under investigation and will be charged to court as soon as possible.



“In furtherance of operation, the teams of operatives were relentless and at about 1600 hours they extended their search for the last kidnapped victim to Babale Mountain, Jos North LGA.

“On sighting the combined team, the hoodlums opened fire on them but were overpowered by the teams superior firepower, which led to the rescue of the kidnapped victim Joanna Drenkat, ‘f’, six years old, unhurt. Manhunt for the fleeing suspects continues”, CP Egbuka said.