The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), North West, Nigeria, has raised alarm over perceived resumption of Fulani genocide in Southern Kaduna, Kaduna State, while the government at all levels appears to have abandoned the people to the blood thirsty merchants of violence. SOKAPU in a statement on Tuesday by Luka Binniyat, National Public Relations Officer, decried the invasion of Gonan Rogo Community last Monday by armed men identified by the locals as Fulani militia, lamenting the unending cruelty and wanton destruction of lives and property of Southern Kaduna communities. The Union stated that the wanton destruction of lives and property continued Monday night as armed Fulani militia (Islamic terrorists group) laid siege to Gonan Rogo village, Kajuru Local Government  Area (LGA), Kaduna State, leaving 17 persons murdered in cold blood, 6 critically injured and rustled cows.
The PRO narrated that SOKAPU visited the community last Tuesday at about 12 noon and saw the horror inflicted on the poor Adara village, 64km from Kaduna metropolis on the Kaduna – Kachia Road.
SOKAPU indicated that the fact-finding visit made the members discover that the armed Fulani militia struck around 11:30pm Monday night. The Union narrated that the militia broke into the home of Jonathan Yakubu, 40 years,  slaughtered him; and also murdered his wife, Sheba Yakubu 32, and hacked to death their three children, Patience 13, Revelation 6, and Rejoice 4, thus, wiping out the entire Yakubu household.
SOKAPU highlighted: “We met relations of the Yakubu’s who were sobbing beyond consolation in front of the house Yakubu had built.
“From this compound trails of blood led to another gory scene where Kauna Magaji was killed with her daughter, Faith Magaji, who died of cutlass cuts to their heads.
“Still not done, the killers went to another compound where they met Saraunia Lucky, 25, newly married and had given birth to her baby 3 months ago. With the baby cuddled in her arms in fear, she was shot dead and the bullet passed through the soft skull of the baby.
“But by some strange stroke of luck, the baby survived and was rushed to a nearby hospital where a bullet was removed from its head.
“When we visited the village, the baby was nursed by its auntie who also looked helpless. She told us that since the previous night the baby had not had any milk but was only taking water. She said that where she could buy infant milk was under lockdown.” The Union noted that rescue came to the baby when a clergy from Albarka Baptist Church, Gwari Avenue, Kaduna, came on condolence visit and took the baby and auntie, after listening to their plight, to Kaduna for better attention and care.
The group bemoaned that 6-year-old John Paul was not lucky as he was hacked to death.
The group further revealed that victims of the onslaught include Asanalo Magaji 32, and Yayo Magaji 13; adding that Paul Bawa, 27 and Rahila, 25, his wife was butchered in their homes.
SOKAPU further narrated that in another compound, Mailafia Dalhatu, 60 years, was killed as he tried to escape. His younger brother, Yaro Dalhatu 56, was killed in another compound, with his wife, Saratu 45. Their granddaughter, Blessing Yari 14, was also killed.
It disclosed also that another boy, called Popular Teacher, 17 years, was gunned down and died instantly.
SOKAPU pointed out that over 17 persons were murdered in cold blood for no apparent reason by persons who the villagers identified as Fulani. However, six other people were receiving treatment in various hospitals. “A total of 7 cows were rustled. The compound of Liberty Yari was razed but he was lucky to escape with his household,” the PRO said.
SOKAPU wondered that “Their Fulani and Muslim neighbors, some who have been living around the community for 40 years, had all quietly left in the night before the attack.”
SOKAPU members said they left the village when a grave was being dug for the mass burial of the victims.
The Union also decried that there were no single security personnel in the village.
SOKAPU accordingly declared: “It is, therefore, clear that while Kaduna State Government is enforcing the lockdown against COVID-19 with all its might, it has little or no interest in securing our law-abiding, defenseless communities against these unrelenting massacre and ethnic cleansing.
“We call on all men and women of conscience, groups, organizations and the international community to assist us in persuading the government of Kaduna State and the Federal Government of Nigeria to save us from the swords and bullets of these outlaws.”