Share this on WhatsApp



 


Governor Abiodun hosted Laycon, an indigene of the state yesterday October 6 where he announced his appointment as a youth ambassador in the state. The governor also announced a cash gift of N5 million to Laycon as well as a three-bedroom bungalow. Read here.
In a post shared on his Instagram page this morning, award-winning singer, Wale Adenuga, said the governor’s decision is “disheartening”
”I’m totally disheartened by the Governor of Ogun state making the winner of #bbnaija an ambassador of the state, rewarding him further with cash and a house.
No thanks to you sir for further entrenching the sad narrative that we are a nation that rewards trivialities and mediocrity.
Adenuga said, “Our values keeps going to the dogs!”.
Meanwhile, Laycon, full names Olamilekan Moshood Agbeleshe, is born 8 November 1993, is a Nigerian reality TV personality, rapper, singer and songwriter. He is the winner of Big Brother Naija season 5 and currently the youth ambassador of Ogun State, Nigeria since 6 October 2020.
He was born and raised in Lagos, Nigeria. He is a native of Bajuwen, Odeda, Ogun State. In 2012, he got admitted to study philosophy in University of Lagos and graduated in 2016 with a second class upper degree.
Laycon started his career interning as the personal assistant to the MD and CEO of Latjum Global Nigeria Limited when he was still an undergraduate in University of Lagos. He moved to Bestman Games, Ikoyi, Lagos where he worked as a sales and business development personnel after graduating from the university.
Two months later, he became the personal assistant to the assistant director of welfare in administration and human resources at Lagos State Ministry of Information and Strategy. During the course of his career, he worked as a freelance writer for different companies and establishments.
At a tender age, Laycon began rapping and writing songs. In 2014, he was among the ten artistes that performed at the 2014 Coke Studio University of Lagos event. He was also a top ten finalists of the 2017 MTV Base LSB challenge.
Laycon signed into Fierce Nation record label in 2019. On 21 February 2019, he released a track, “Fierce” with Chinko Ekun and Reminisce from his second EP Who Is Laycon? He released another single “Senseless” on 28 August 2020


Share this on WhatsApp