Share this on WhatsApp
Army issues threat


 


The #EndSARS protest by youths across the country may be biting more than they could chew following a revelation by an international group of hacktivists, Anonymous, that they are in support of the EndSARS protests rocking Nigeria.
The controversial group, known for hacking and revealing sensitive information about government activities, claimed it had hacked the website of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Nigeria Police unit as well as President Muhammadu Buhari’s system.
The group, which stated this in a series of tweets on its Twitter handle, @YourAnonNews, made some revelation about the activities of SARS and threatened President Buhari.
On its revelation on SARS which it tweeted on Tuesday, it said, “#SARS special police force unit in Nigeria kills innocents. Today 20 more people lost their lives including anons. #Nigeria gov oppression and killings should stop.
It further released names, addresses, phone numbers and bank account details of people it said were SARS operatives.
The tweet on Buhari which it posted on Thursday morning read, “The only thing weaker than @mbuhari’s computer security is his self-esteem and self-worth. No President of any nation should have the time to concern themselves with ‘sodomy.’
“We’re fairly confident that #anonymous is about to have an orgy with @mbuhari, which he’s absolutely going to hate because, guys or gals, we’re all raging…. #EndSARS #EndSWAT
Protests in Nigeria calling for an end to police brutality and extra-judicial killings have continued to gather momentum both at home and abroad.
The government has since Sunday disbanded SARS and on Tuesday replaced it with the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) Team.
But the protesters, who would not have any of those two, are demanding for a total reform of the Nigerian Police.
Meanwhile, following the heightening protests against police brutality across the country, the Nigerian Army warned it is prepared to protect the country’s democracy at all cost.
Apparently referring to the #EndSARS protesters, the Nigerian Army in a statement by the Acting Director Army Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa, assured it is committed to the “sustenance of peace, security and defence of democracy in Nigeria”
“As a responsible and law abiding organisation,  the NA reaffirms its unalloyed loyalty and commitment to the President, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari and the Constitution of the Country.
“The NA is ready to fully support the civil authority in whatever capacity to maintain law and order and deal with any situation decisively.

Share this on WhatsApp