Share this on WhatsApp

Nigerian lady narrates how she helped her primary school teacher she was avoiding after learning about the hardship she

A Nigerian Facebook user has narrated how she helped her primary school teacher she was avoiding after discovering about the hardship the woman is allegedly being subjected to by her in-laws.

According to Warri Rebel, she was initially avoiding her former teacher until she called her by her sister’s name.

Nigerian lady narrates how she helped her primary school teacher she was avoiding after learning about the hardship she

She wrote;

I saw my primary school teacher at Agbara few minutes ago and pretended I didn’t see her. She was hawking and looked like an old woman. I didn’t want us to see each other. I didn’t want her to see me looking like that but she held me and called me by my sister’s name.

“Ruth right?” She asked

I said I wasn’t Ruth and told her my name. I hugged her and she held on to the rubber on her head with one hand and hugged me with the other. She asked after my parents and siblings and I told her they’re fine.

“I see you a lot but before I call you, you’ve crossed. I was about crossing when I saw you coming and said I should ask if you’re the person I think you are”

“It’s me ooo”

“I stay at magbon now. Been staying there for 5 years. Moved here in 2015 after my husband died in 2012. I usually see your mom, didn’t she tell you?” I vaguely remember my mom saying aunty Evelyn’s husband died.

“She didn’t tell me” I replied

“Na here we dey hustle now ooo, me and my kids”

We talked for a while but all I could see was a woman who looked 20 years older. I remember her in primary school…she had a shiny black skin and moved with a swing in her hips. I tried to reconcile that person with the woman I was seeing now but it was hard. She looked so unkempt. Her once shiny skin was now faded. I could see the tears and fade on her shirt and the blackheads on her face.

This woman was a teacher. A very good one at that. But she now hawks snacks on the road.

I wanted to ask for her account number but I didn’t. I didn’t want to embarrass her. I told her I’d be back to see her since I know her spot.

Share this on WhatsApp