Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Immediate past National Vice Chairman, North Central of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Ahmed Suleiman Wambai has revealed APC’s plan to wrest power out of the hand of the recently re-elected governor of Edo state, Godwin Obaseki.
Suleiman who spoke at the weekend said the APC is planning to use the court and technicality to knock out Obaseki from power and the party is boasting that it will succeed in doing so.
He said Obaseki won the election because some APC governors conspired with the PDP to defeat Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu because of Adams Oshiomhole.
Wambai added that the APC had not lost the election yet as the party would take over Edo State on technical grounds.
He said Obaseki had no papers and that the APC was waiting to see any court or government that would prove that Obaseki was qualified.
Wambai stated also that Obaseki lied under oath and received nomination forms from two political parties against the ruling of the Supreme Court, saying his victory was just a temporary celebration for him.
In his words: “It was pure conspiracy. Both PDP and APC members joined forces. But I tell you what, we have not lost that election. We are taking over Edo state on technical grounds.
“Obaseki has no paper and we are waiting to see the governor, any court or government that will prove that Obaseki is qualified.
“Secondly, Obaseki lied under oath and received nomination forms from two political parties against the ruling of the Supreme Court. This is just a temporary celebration for him.”
Obaseki had on September 19, 2020 polled 307,955 to defeat his main rival, Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress, who had 223,619.
Obaseki won his first election in 2016 as a candidate of the APC, principally supported by Adams Oshiomhole, the immediate past governor and former chairman of the APC.
Mr Ize-Iyamu was then the candidate of the PDP.
But in the course of his first term as the governor, Obaseki became estranged with Oshiomhole causing an epic political battle now capped off with his victory.
The battle contributed to the fall of Oshiomhole as the chairman of the APC. But Obaseki also could not get the APC’s ticket which made him defect to the PDP with his deputy, Phillip Shaibu.
Share this on WhatsApp