Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Vice President, Nigeria Agribusiness Group, Dr. Emmanuel Ijewere and many other key players in Nigeria’s agribusiness are expected to grace this year’s Brand Journalist Association of Nigeria conference scheduled for Lagos on November 27,
2020.
The annual conference which is the 8th edition is themed: “Consolidating Nigeria’s Agricultural Revolution: Challenges, Opportunities and Lessons.
The panel of discussants that will dissect the paper presented by the guest speaker include: Dr. Tunji Owoeye, President, Rice Millers Importers and Distributors Association of Nigeria; Otunba Femi Oke, Vice President, West, All Farmers Association of Nigeria; Mr. Ade Adefeko, Vice President, Olam Nigeria; Mr. Segun Atho, National Deputy president, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria and Mr. Tunde Okoya, Vice President, Cold Chain Association of Nigeria.
Other commentators include: Mr. Richard Mark Mbaram, Senior Special Adviser to Minister of Agriculture on Communication; Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed, Managing Director/CEO, Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Mr. Thomas Oloriegbe, Managing Director/CEO, NOSAK Group and Mr. Paul Gbededo, Group Managing Director, Flour Mills of Nigeria.
A seasoned brand analyst, Kayode Olagesin, Managing Director/CEO, Towncriers Limited would be the Moderator of the event.
An awards ceremony is scheduled to kick off immediately after the conference lecture at the same venue.
According to Princewill Ekwujuru, Chairman, Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN), “Our plan at this year’s conference is to brainstorm on the imperatives in developing our very vibrant agricultural sector, utilizing various techniques in value chain development to grow agriculture infrastructure and create big brands that will jump-start the much desired industrialization Nigeria needs for her economic development and expansion”.
The event will attract a live audience of about 200 socially- distanced persons that will be composed of about 50  brand Journalists, students from various tertiary institutions and professionals  institutions like APCON, NIPR, NIMN, NIJ as well as industry professionals, government officials and brand managers.
A larger audience of thousands of students, young professionals, industry players and observers will join across the globe readers via zoom and other social media platforms.
Commenting on the what the association hopes to achieve an the end of this loaded programme, Lukman Ishau, Secretary of the association said, “Akin to last year’s event, the 2020 conference will definitely create innovative in-roads that will lead to solutions to the myriads of challenges facing brand Nigeria
Share this on WhatsApp