Share this on WhatsApp
 


The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Monday resolved to make a huge sacrifice on the outcome of the election for the peace of the state. Ize-Iyamu in an official statement on Monday pointed out that the governorship election in Edo State was not transparent, free and fair as widely reported. He acknowledged the relative peaceful conduct of the election but highlighted certain malpractices in some parts of the state which he said could form basis to challenge the result at the tribual. He, however, decided to align with the endorsement of the election result by APC leaders and other notable individuals.
“These malpractices could easily form the basis to challenge the election results. We have, however, decided not to commence an election petition.
“This is to avoid further tension in the state. We are also mindful that the leadership of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect,” Ize-Iyamu declared.
The APC candidate in the statement recalled that the supervision of the electoral process to determine who occupies the office of Governor of Edo State for the next four years by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) began officially in June, with the unveiling of the Election Timetable.
“To the glory of God Almighty, the election held on 19th September 2020 with the outcome later announced by INEC. We thank God Almighty for the relatively peaceful nature of the voting process in most parts of the state,” Ize-Iyamu acknowledged.
The APC candidate declared: “contrary to orchestrated media reports, the election was neither free nor fair. There were several episodes of violence, voter intimidation and falsification of results. “In particular, there were unlawful cancellations of results, particularly, from Urhonigbe South and North in Orhiomwon, while results were falsified from many polling units in Ofunama in Ovia South West, and in parts of Ovia North East, Owan West, Oredo, Egor, Ikpoba-Okha, Esan North East, Esan West, Esan South East, and Uhunmwode Local Government Areas.
“Sadly, two persons were killed during the election, while gun-wielding thugs took over collation centres in many locations without the intervention of law-enforcement agents. There were also several cases of malfunctioning card readers, which disenfranchised duly registered voters, in addition to many cases of unregistered voters voting with pre-purchased voters’ cards not collected by their actual owners.”
Acknowledging that “these malpractices could easily form the basis to challenge the election results;” he maintained: “we have, however, decided not to commence an election petition. This is to avoid further tension in the state. We are also mindful that the leadership of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect.”
Ize-Iyamu however, remarked: “nonetheless, we must emphasize that elections are far more than actual voting, just as democracy includes more than just elections.
“It is in this light that we draw attention to the fact that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its flagbearers have continued to pursue several pre-election suits in various courts against us, all totalling 13. One of such cases came up in the High Court, Benin on 2nd October, 2020, days after the election.
“On our part, we had filed two pre-election cases against the PDP and its flagbearer challenging their eligibility to contest the election. These are all lawful and integral parts of the electoral process in any democracy, which we must all respect and acknowledge as genuine democrats.”
He observed that the outcome of the pending cases has direct effect on the election. “Consequently, we have decided to continue with our pre-election cases in full exercise of our legal rights, just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us,” Ize-Iyamu said.
The APC candidate expressed his  gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for his statesmanship and support throughout the election campaign. “We thank the National leadership of our party led by HE Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State, our National Campaign Council led by HE Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Governor of Kano State, APC Governors, leaders and members of the National Assembly and other leaders of our party at both national and state levels for their immense contributions.
“We also sincerely thank His Royal Majesty, Omo N’ Oba N’ Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, the Oba of Benin,  the Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III, and all our other Royal Fathers, for their unceasing prayers for the peace of the state before, during and after the elections.
“We thank our religious leaders for their prayers and intercessions throughout the campaign and even thereafter.
“We commend the good people of Edo State for their peaceful conduct despite the hostile and provocative actions of state officials, which have remained unabated. We urge everyone to remain law-abiding, as responsible citizens.
“We specially thank our innumerable supporters for their steadfast support and tremendous show of love, and likewise urge them to remain calm while keeping faith alive for a better Edo State which we shall all be proud of,” Ize-Iyamu expressed in a solemn display of statesmanship.
He, however,  affirmed: “our cause to uplift our state using the democratic system is a noble mission from which we SHALL NEVER waiver. As law-abiding citizens, we must all continue to believe in the electoral process as an important part of the democratic system, as it remains the best method of choosing who leads the people, devoid of violence and avoidable acrimony.”
Share this on WhatsApp