Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
The build up to the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State has been intensified, elevating political rivalries between the leading candidates and their political parties to higher altitude. The leading candidates – incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of the All Progressives Congress (APC),  incumbent Deputy Governor Ajayi Agboola of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and Eyitayo Jegede of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) – have deployed their political machines to overwhelm one another in the mobilization of support for the Saturday elections; everyone trying to redraw or alter the political landscape of the state.
Governor Akeredolu, representing Ondo north, has been battling to maintain his hegemony in the northern political clime from Owo down to Akoko Edo. Electioneering campaigns of the PDP candidate, Jegede, were reportedly interrupted by violent thugs who allegedly attacked the PDP campaign team in Owo.
Eyitayo Jegede, representing Ondo central, in battling to sustain the domination of the clime from Akure to Ondo City and the environs. Like the regional protection politics, APC leaders also complained of being attacked in Akure, state capital, during their campaign.
Besides, APC and PDP supporters were reported to be involved in violent clash on Sunday in Akure.  Apparently, residents of Oba Nla, Oba Adesida road, Arakale, and Oja Oba areas of Akure, had to run for safety during the fracas.
Ondo Central is crucial in the October 10 governorship election. the former Governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko, is also from the district; and he nis currently sponsoring the ZLP candidate, Deputy Governor Ajayi Agboola, for the election. The deep involvement of Mimiko has the tendency of sharing the votes in Ondo central which may affect Jegede. In an attempt to adjust to the threat of divided votes in Ondo central, party leaders lobbied former President Olusegun Obasanjo to lure former Governor Mimiko to support the PDP. This was perceived to have culminated into the meeting between former President Obasanjo and Mimiko in Abeokuta, Ogun State, last week.
There are insinuations that the PDP is strongly negotiating an alliance with ZLP to build more consolidated political forte against Akeredolu of the APC.
Meanwhile, Deputy Governor Agboola, representing Ondo south, has been proving to be a force to reckon with ion Ondo politics. There were insinuations that some forces in the ruling APC may be supporting the deputy governor even after he has defected from the party. It has been a seeming impossible task for Governor Akeredolu to get the deputy governor impeached since he resigned from the APC, the party that brought him into the state government.
Deputy Governor Agboola is enjoying the support of the people of Ondo south from Igbokoda to Okitipupa, down to Irele and the environs. It would appear that the Ondo south which was dominated by late Governor Olusegun Agagu and has been a PDP enclave, are shifting their support to Agboola because of the neglect of the zone since the death of Agagu. They were initially following Olusola Oke but appear to be under pressure to follow Agboola this complaining that Governor Akeredolu abandoned them and did nothing to restore electricity in their communities. They communities from Okitipupa to Ode- Irele and the environs have been in darkness since the administration of Mimiko.
Meanwhile, the support of Mimiko, if sustained, may give Agboola a slight edge in the race. And an alliance of PDP and ZLP would bring both the Ondo central and Ondo south into one political bloc; this will make the race difficult for incumbent Governor Akeredolu of the APC.
Besides, the PDP in the 2019 general elections, covered more grounds than the APC in the senatorial election. That, again, extended the PDP stronghold across the zones the senators were elected.
Meanwhile, there is a general feeling in Ondo State that Akeredolu has not performed well in the current tenure. Most residents of the state were of the view that the governor is not a politician and “does not know about governance.” However, there other stakeholders who felt he should continue to complete the second tenure.
Then, the configuration of zoning and power shift in Ondo State. Former Governor Mimiko represented Ondo central and was succeeded by Akeredolu from Ondo north. The incumbent governor has argued that it is the turn of Ondo north to complete the second term of eight years before another zone. But Jegede had argued that leadership is not an inheritance.
Deputy Governor Agboola, representing Ondo south, may be in contention that the zone has taken only one tenure, that was the Agagu one term, before Mimiko came on board. Apparently, Ondo south still has one tenure to serve.
However, PDP leaders are working assiduously to unseat the incumbent governor and is deeply lobbying for an alliance with the ZLP towards unifying the political forces of Mimiko, Agboola and Jegede, which may constitute a potent political obstacle for Akeredolu and the APC to contend with.
In the whole configuration, the incumbency factors will work to the advantage of Governor Akeredolu, who is also going into the election with the federal might of the APC government at the centre. However, relying on the federal might which include the INEC, the Police and other federal institutions controlled by the APC government involved in election supervision, openly implies manipulation of the electoral process.
In all, the people of Ondo State will decide on who carries the day on Saturday, October 10, 2020.
Share this on WhatsApp