Share this on WhatsApp
 


There are emerging indicators that the Lagos angry mob may not be responsible for the fire outbreak at the Ikoyi prisons, Lagos. A source had it that some inmates had reached agreement with some Wardens on plots to escape from the imprisonment facilities. Thus, the inmates set the fire from within to cause confusion that will make the prisons officials open the gates for them to escape in the guise of being evacuated for safety from the inferno.
Another source disclosed that it was an electrical spark the triggered the fire.
However, some inmates who attempted to escape through jumping the fence found it so high to jump. The security operatives also commenced immediate shootings to scare the inmates from jumping the fence.
The Computer Training Centre Records and the Administration Office were damaged by the fire.
It was gathered that the same plot was made at the Kirikiri Maximum prisons. However, because of the hard criminals at the Kirikiri Maximum and Medium prisons, security operatives have been at alert since the mass protests commenced across the country.
Meanwhile, the inferno at the Ikoyi prisons is being brought under control; including the movement of the prisons inmates.
The prisons premises and the neighbourhood have been cordoned by security operatives after reinforcement was called to help those on routine duties in the Prisons Service. The Army and Police drafted to reinforce the prisons staff engaged the hoodlums who converged near the prisons to aid the escape of inmates by absorbing them in the crowd as witnessed in the Edo incident.
Massive security have been deployed to both the Kirikiri and Ikoyi prisons.
The Lagos episode is coming after the jailbreak incident in Edo State. The protesters were accused of the plot to release some prisoners but the video clip of the attempted jailbreak showed that the protesters were all outside the Prisons yard, and no where near the entrance gate. The prisons officials were suspected to have plotted the escape of the prisoners. The gates were opened and the escapees were aided to jump the high fence guarded wire sharp security wires. The escapees after jumping the high fence were however absorbed in the crowd by the hoodlums.
The intervention of the police on duty who immediately called for their guns on sighting the prisoners jump the fence, reduced the number of escapees in the Edo jailbreak.
It is not unexpected that in times of chaos and threat of lawlessness as it is currently in Nigeria, prisons and some public institutions may be on target, sometimes from within. There have been attacks on courts, police stations and others by hoodlums in the aftermath of the Lekki toll gate shooting on Tuesday.
Share this on WhatsApp