Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
There are emerging indications that Deputy Governor Ajayi Agboola, candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) in the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, may be facing uncertainty in Ondo south, his primary political zone. National Daily gathered that most people in the axis are considering tracing their ways to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), shifting their support to barrister Eyitayo Jegede.   
Sources disclosed to National Daily that Ondo south is predominantly PDP and that the people have continued to maintain their strong belief in late Governor Olusegun Agagu, who maintained a steadfast membership of the PDP. Besides, the sources said that the people are also beginning to evaluate the various governorship candidates and their capacity to deliver good governance in the state. Thus, they were said to find Eyitayo Jegede more reliable for the leadership of the state.
However, two notable All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders – Chief Olusola Oke and Jimoh Ibrahim – are from Ondo south, but the grassroots leaders were said to be re-organizing the people for independent decisions at the polls on Saturday.
Most communities in the zone complain majorly of electricity cut off from the south over the years.  They noted that even the Deputy Governor’s community in Ilaje does not have electricity, yet he could not help his people. The ZLP candidate, according to findings, appears to be losing ground to the PDP candidate, and relatively the APC candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, in Ondo south.
Our sources, however, alleged that leading candidates could be sharing money to people to secure their votes. They were of the view that the money sharing may influence voting in several parts of the state on Saturday.
The sources revealed that the political violence that erupted in the past few days in certain parts of the state, including Akure, has been brought under control by security operatives. They, therefore, said that the state is now secure for the election.
Share this on WhatsApp