Share this on WhatsApp






 


Manchester United began their Champions League campaign in style with a 2-1 away win over Paris-Saint Germain.
Bruno Fernandes and Marcus Rashford may have sealed the victory for United with the latter netting a late winner for the Red Devils, but none of them have emerged as their ultimate hero on the night.
National Daily can confirm that Axel Tuanzebe has earned the heroic plaudits from many especially from United No. 1 David de Gea who has hailed his 22-year-old team-mate as ‘unbelievable’.
It was amazing how Tuanzebe who was last in action 10 months ago could give such an outstanding performance in such a big game on the night.
Tuanzebe remarkably gave Mbappe a quiet night
National Daily gathered that Tuanzebe last played for United in a Caraboa Cup clash against Colchester in December last year.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer who was hit with injury crisis with his regular centre-backs Harry Maguire and Eric Bailly both injured, put his faith in Tuanzebe against world-class attackers in Kylian Mbappe, Neymar and Angel di Maria.
The 22-year-old Tuanzebe who was making his return from injury, played in a back three alongside Victor Lindelof and Luke Shaw.
Tuanzebe capped his fantastic night when he used his pace and athleticism to match the rapid Mbappe while keeping the World Cup winner in check including one superb tackle in particular.
De Gea speaking to MUTV expressed his satisfaction on Tuanzebe’s display.
“He has been unbelievable today.”
“He played against two of the best players in the world in Neymar and Mbappe so he did really, really well. I am really happy for him.
“He has been in difficult moments with the injuries but now he has shown today that he is capable of playing in big games.”
Similarly, United’s legendary centre-half Rio Ferdinand speaking to BT Sport after the game lauded Tuanzebe’s performance on the night while soliciting for the 22-year-old to keep his place following his contribution to United’s Group H win.
 
“This is where United have struggled in the last six to 12 months, chasing players down those channels”.
 
“They can’t stay with them and it opens up the back four, back three. But here, he was smelling danger.
“Ole has just said that’s two of the best strikers in the world. He snuffed out danger on many occasions and you have to reward performances like that at a time of injuries.
“Again, first game in 10 months and to come in and play like that from out the cold you just deserve to be rewarded.”






Share this on WhatsApp