Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
President Trump is being transported to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center after announcing that he had tested positive for the deadly coronavirus, according to the White House. Trump is struggling with a low-grade fever, a cough and nasal congestion, among other symptoms, said two officials familiar with his condition.
The Biden campaign pulled its negative campaign ads, after news broke that Trump was being taken to the hospital to be treated for his coronavirus symptoms.
A campaign aide confirmed that the negative ads were coming down.
Biden, who at an earlier campaign event offered his prayers to Trump and the first lady, tweeted around the same time that the moment called for the nation to come together.
Former president Barack Obama and vice-presidential candidate Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) addressed news of Trump’s coronavirus diagnosis Friday evening as they shared a Zoom stage in a virtual grass-roots fundraiser for the Biden campaign. Neither had spoken publicly since the White House announced the president’s positive test early Friday.
“Although we’re in the midst of a big political fight, and we take that very seriously, we also want to extend our best wishes to the president of the United States [and] the first lady,” Obama said. “Michelle and I are hopeful that they and others that have been affected by covid-19 around the country are getting the care that they need, that they are going to be on the path to a speedy recovery, and it’s important I think for all of us to remember that even when we’re in the midst of big political battles with issues that have a lot at stake, that we’re all Americans and we’re all human beings, and we want to make sure everybody is healthy.”
The event, which also included actor Michael B. Jordan, was the first of two for Harris on Friday. The senator flew to Las Vegas on Friday and will hold a drive-in voter mobilization event later in the evening.
“Doug and I are sharing our deepest prayers for the health and recovery of the president and the first lady. The threat of this virus is real for all of us,” Harris said. “Let it be a reminder to all of us that we must remain vigilant and take care of ourselves and take care of each other. So Doug and I wish them both well, and please take care of yourselves, and take care of each other.”
Mother Jones
Share this on WhatsApp