Share this on WhatsApp





Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly has counseled residents of the state to halt ruinous pillage of the state patrimony, as urge them to unite on a mission to restore Lagos.

Obasa gave the counsel while on an on-spot assessment of the carnage that greeted the state,sequel the hijack of the protest against the now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) by evil minded individuals.

He also appealed to residents to support the ongoing efforts of government targeted at restoring normalcy in the state.

Obasa in company of some his colleagues at the state Assembly, paid a visit  to some of the areas where arsonists recked lots of havoc, looting and setting ablaze business outfits, not sparing the palace of the of the Oba of Lagos, HRM, Rilwan Akiolu, and the Isokoko Police Station.

Other areas visited by the team of lawmakers are the Pen Cinema Police Station, the Fagba Police unit and Television Continental.

Obasa bemoaned the degree of destruction recorded in the state, while urging the residents to eschew further pillage of their common patrimony but to rather support government in the restoration process.

He however, maintained that Lagos State would continue to maintain its very respected status in the country and in Africa.

He urged aggrieved residents to be conscious of the fact that rebuilding the state is a major task that must be done and it is only possible where  unity reigns.

He added that government is making frantic efforts to redress the course of those who lost their lives as a result of SARS brutality.

” Lagos is a mini-Nigeria and it habours people irrespective of their political and religious affiliations or wherever they come from.

I urge residents to abstain from further destruction of properties and the heritage that binds the us together.



“Unity and love should become the new focus as this would encourage, empower and inspire the government’s direction at this critical time”.

He promised residents that as representatives of the people, the members of the House of Assembly would always stand for what would benefit them and engender the seamless development of the state.

Obasa commended the management of the Television Continental for its quick return, despite the magnitude of the destruction experienced.

He urged the management of the television station to continue to sustain its tempo as one of the biggest news media in the country.





Share this on WhatsApp