Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Despite the announcement by the Rivers state government banning the #EndSARS protesters from the state, scores of youths from various parts of the state stormed the streets of Port Harcourt, the state capital to join the #EndSARS protest in defiance to Governor Nyesom Wike’s directive.
The youths converged opposite the Pleasure Park on Aba Road and began their procession, insisting the Governor had no right to ban peaceful protests.
Armed with various placards and chanting “End SARS”, in solidarity, the youths blocked the busy Aba road, causing traffic gridlock.
Meanwhile, many Lagosians were stranded in traffic for hours as protesters blocked the Lekki highway and the Murtala Muhammed Airport Road in Lagos, preventing people from going to work.
There were protests in Abia, Delta, Ogun, Oyo, Osogho and Ebonyi states and many other places.
On Monday, President Muhammadu Buhari said the scrapping of the SARS will be followed by a massive reform of the police.
But these pronouncements could not stop the protesters who staged rallies in Ikeja, Lekki and other areas in Lagos.
According to some of the protesters, the government is not sincere with the ban on SARS.
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, addressing thousands of youths at the Lekki Tollgate who sang ‘SARS must go’, the governor called for respect for other residents.
He assured the protesters that there will be no further police brutality in the state.
In Abuja the protesters, most of whom wore black T-shirts, rallied at the Berger Bridge, Wuse. They blocked the road while chanting: ‘End police brutality now.’
The blockage of the road led to a long queue of vehicles on major roads. This paralysed vehicular traffic in the area as motorists made U-turn to avoid getting caught up in the resultant gridlock.
The protesters demanded that the police authorities “carry out psychological evaluation and re-training of all disbanded SARS officers before they are redeployed.”
They also demanded the “release of all arrested protesters, justice for all deceased victims of police brutality and appropriate compensation for their families.”
Early on Tuesday’s morning ENDSARS protesters locked down Osogbo, capital of Osun.
The protesters converged on Nelson Mandela Freedom Park around 10:30am and marched to the popular junction, blocking the highways with placards, banners and burn tires.
They barricaded Alekuwodo, Ogo-Oluwa, Odi-Olowo, and Orisunbare roads with tires, woods and iron rods, forcing motorists to make U-turn from the junction.
Share this on WhatsApp