Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun state has reinstated a state wide curfew 24 hours after suspending an initial curfew on the state as hoodlums took advantage of the #EndSARS protests to wreak havoc in the state.
Governor Oyetola gave the order on Saturday during a state-wide broadcast where he informed that the curfew was re-imposed over the unrest caused by hoodlums.
He said that the curfew which takes immediate effect and is indefinite was reintroduced to “prevent the current state of anarchy from degenerating into a large-scale breakdown of law and order.”
“It is unfortunate that hoodlums and criminals have taken advantage of the government’s action to wantonly loot government and private property, including private business premises and homes in several parts of the State this morning. This is unacceptable and it stands condemned.
“After an Emergency Security Meeting this afternoon, where the whole situation was reviewed and assessed, we came to the inevitable conclusion to declare a curfew. Consequently, I hereby declare a 24-hour curfew across the whole State with immediate effect.
“This inevitable conclusion was reached to avert the continuation of this irresponsible act, especially now that the genuine protesters have suspended their protest earlier today.
“My fellow citizens, the declaration of a 24-hour curfew, which will be indefinite until further notice, is to prevent the current state of anarchy from degenerating into large-scale breakdown of law and order.
“For the avoidance of doubt, there shall be no vehicular (including Okada) or human movement during this period. Only those on essential duties will be permitted to move around. These persons too must carry with them proper identification to allow access.
“Violators of the curfew rules shall be prosecuted in line with the extant laws of the State.
“I enjoin all our citizens and residents to return home and remain in their homes until further notice.
“I assure them of their safety during this period, as always, as security operatives have been deployed in all the parts of the State to restore and maintain law and order within the precinct of the law,” he concluded.
Share this on WhatsApp