Share this on WhatsApp

 


The Senate at plenary on Tuesday presided by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, endorsed the dissolution of the Special Anti-Robber Squad (SARS) by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. The senate also requested the IG to arrest police officers who shot or killed #EndSARS protesters in any part of the country for prosecution.
Senator Buhari Abdulfatai had moved a motion of urgent national importance, reporting to the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly about the killing of one person, Jimoh Isiaka, in his constituency, as well as the attack on the Palace of Soun of Ogbomoso, Oyo State, HRH Oba Oladunni Oyewumi.
Senate President Ahmad Lawan had fumed that the operations of the Special Anti-Robber Squad (SARS) are not acceptable to the government. He stated that the police were established to ensure law and order in the society, not to turn against innocent citizens. The Senate President scolded the Police, lamenting that their activities will be recorded in the history of Nigeria.
The Senate President declared: “The entire essence of the Nigeria Police Force is to ensure there is law and order and when SARS turned against the people, it was right for the people to protest.
“The protest has yielded the desired result so far and there won’t be need to continue again when SARS has been disbanded. Those culprits who are involved in the killings should be brought to book.”
The lawmakers acknowledged that several Nigerian youths have been killed by security operatives in the protests, thus, observing a minute silence in honour of Isiaka and other Nigerians that lost their lives to police brutality.
Senator Ifeanyi Ubah praised the Inspector General of Police for disbanding SARS.
Senator Rochas Okorocha added that the Senate should demand the immediate release of all protesters arrested for the restoration of peace between the government and the people.
Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, had on Monday intervened with the collaboration of member of the Lagos State House of Assembly representing Surulere constituency, Desmond Elliot, to secure the release of persons arrested and detained by the Police in Surulere, Lagos, during the #ENDSARS protest in the area.
Share this on WhatsApp