Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Oyo state Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Nureni Adeniran, has lauded a non-profit organization, Junior Chambers International, Ibadan for renovating two blocks of classrooms in Seventh Day Adventist Primary School, Ibadan, under the Oyo State Adopt-a-school project.
Executive Chairman of the board, Dr. Nureni Adeniran gave the commendation during commissioning of the project on Saturday, adding that the renovation would go a long way to enhance the assimilation of the pupils.
According to the Executive Chairman, the efforts of the Organisation is commendable and should be emulated by all well-meaning Nigerians, as government alone cannot solve the accumulated problem in the Education sector.
He said JCI’s kind gesture came at a time the State Government is encouraging public private partnership, calling on individuals to invest in education needs in the State.
“The government of Engr. Seyi Makinde is doing a lot to redeem the education sector of the State. We have been doing more in construction and renovation of school buildings. However, kind hearted Organisations, as yours may support Government, for the sake of our children’s future”. There is no support that is too small”, he said.
Also speaking at the commissioning, President of JCI Ibadan Elite, Sanmi Abiodun, said apart from the renovation of the blocks of classrooms, his group also intends to build and equip a library for the school.
According to him, his organization has also renovated the school’s dilapidated fence to enhance the security of the pupils.
In another development, the Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board has promised to provide the Basic Education Quality Assurance Offices, (QAOs) under the State Universal Basic Education Board with necessary supports that would further make quality education accessible to every child.
Dr. Nureni Adeniran said this at the headquarters of the Board in Ibadan, while handing over new motorcycles and some office tools including laptops and printers to Quality Assurance Officers across the 33 Local Government Universal Basic Education Authorities.
The gesture, according to him, was in line with the State Government’s determination towards ensuring that Oyo State pupils receive quality education.
Adeniran advised the QAOs to make good use of the tools, adding that the pieces of equipment were provided to ease their duties of primary schools monitoring, while also enhancing the delivery of quality education in the State.
The Executive Secretary, Mr. Olusanjo Adeniyi while urging the QAOs to make good use of the tools handed over to them, also acknowledged the roles played by the State Government and all other relevant agencies in making Quality Assurance monitoring a priority in the State.
 
Share this on WhatsApp