Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Following a secret meeting between a federal government delegation and some known faces of the #EndSARS protesters allegedly on Monday night, Segun Awosanya (Segalink), and some other protesters have alleged that some people have hijacked the protest for their own gains.
It would be recalled that a virtual meeting, attended by were Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), and Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (Kwara) as well as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, Aliko Dangote, Tony Elumelu, and Aisha Yesufu, had held on Monday night to find a lasting solution to the impasse.
Others at the meeting included Ayo Balogun (Wizkid), Folarin Falana (Falz), Adebola Willams (Debola Lagos), Dipo Awojide and Pamilerin Adegoke.
However, some protesters had queried why Segalink was not included at the meeting or why his name was conspicuously absent among those to be included in the proposed committee.
They recall how he intervened several times during arbitrary arrests, and more importantly, he was regarded as the Nigerian who started the campaign against Police brutality and #EdSARS.
On Wednesday, Segalink sounded bitter about the matter, declaring that “hijackers” have taken over.
“Special thanks to @SavvyRinu et all who started the organic protest before the hijackers took it over. We shall overcome. #EndSARS #ReformPoliceNG”, he tweeted.
Meanwhile, Aisha Yesufu, has reiterated that she doesn’t wish to be included in a panel. “Let it be known that I, Aisha Yesufu, am not interested in being on any committee. The street is where I belong, not the table.
“That’s my strength! Let those who are good at the table be put forth. We must always put our best foot forward!” the freedom fighter asserted.
Tope Akinyode, a lawyer, criticized meetings being held without public knowledge. “Some people are already using us to catch a cruise over this #endsars protest, because at what stage did we agree to people representing us in a meeting?
“Also, those accusing others of “cult” group have also been in a purported meeting with the IGP. What’s going on?” he wrote on Twitter.
Nonso Egemba l, popularly known as Aproko Doctor warned that authorities are creeping in to penetrate leading voices.
The medical practitioner said the government “is succeeding in dividing us, using fault lines where it will be easy to crack us from.
“This is not the time to allow personal bias, resentment or the need for glory to influence our actions. If we all want the same thing, we should all be speaking with one voice,” he tweeted.
Others are demanding an end to all forms of meetings. This set believes the youths should remain focused and continue with the demonstrations.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp