Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Police Service Commission (PSC) has dismissed reports of the alleged dismissal of Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Abayomi Shogunle and Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Dolapo Badmos.
Head, Press and Public Relations of the Commission, Ikechukwu Ani, on Saturday said both officers were only reprimanded and not dismissed as being reported. He also said their reprimands had nothing to do with Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) misconduct.
“Dolapo was not dismissed. She had two cases in the first case she was awarded the punishment of reprimand while in the second case she was given a severe reprimand. Shogunle’s is reprimand,” Ani said.
Ani said the rumours making the rounds of their dismissal were a distortion of the decisions of the plenary of the PSC, which he conveyed to the public on October 9, 2020.
In the statement, he had disclosed the Police Service Commission had approved the dismissal of 10 senior Police Officers and the reduction in rank of nine others.
The Commission also approved the punishment of severe reprimand for eight Officers, reprimand for 10, and letter of warning for three other Officers.
Those dismissed include one Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), two Superintendents of Police (SP), three Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSP) one of which is a retired officer, and four Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASP).
“The dismissed ACP, Magaji Ado Doko was found to have engaged in acts unbecoming of a public Officer; disobedience to lawful order; discreditable conduct; unlawful use of authority and scandalous conduct.
“One of the dismissed SPs, Ogedengbe Abraham was found guilty of negligence/loss of government property; disobedience to lawful order and act unbecoming of a public officer while the other dismissed SP, Mallam Gajere Taluwai was found guilty of discreditable conduct and act unbecoming of a Public officer.
“The three dismissed DSPs were Okunkonin Daniel, Abisoro Obo Irene and Theresa Nuhu who is already retired. The ASPs were Sanusi Rasaki, Uwadala Ehis Oba, Ferdinand Idoko and Igolor Godsent Ogheneruona,” the statement had read.
The Commission took these decisions at its 9th Plenary meeting in Abuja on Monday, 28th and Tuesday 29th September 2020 and presided over by its Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police, Ani said.
Share this on WhatsApp