Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
NIGERIA stands the risk of losing its bid for the office of the President of International Police (INTERPOL) on account of #EndSARS and police brutality.
INTERPOL has 194 member-countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia, China, Canada, Japan, United Arab Emirates, Australia and Saudi Arabia among others.
The tenure of the incumbent, Kim Jong Yang,is due to end this year having been elected in 2018. Yang is completing the tenure of Mr. Meng Hongwei who resigned in 2018.
The next election is scheduled for December during the General Assembly of INTERPOL in Abu Dhabi (UAE).
Nigeria’s bid for the post has intensified in the past few months with members calling for input at different levels.
Findings, however, confirmed that some of the big powers have “not been favourable” to the candidature of Nigeria.
A top source, who spoke in confidence, said: “Some of the big powers are opposed to Nigeria’s leadership of the INTERPOL because of the outcome of the profiling of the police. Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and even the National Human Rights Commission (NHR) have been consistent in their indictment of Nigeria Police Force.
“Some of the issues against the Nigeria Police are extra-judicial killings, roles in some elections, abuse of fundamental human rights of Nigerians, the activities of the disbanded SARS, alleged bribery and corruption, and the poor detention facilities.
But some countries, including China, have sympathy for Nigeria due to “exceptional performance” of some of the nation’s police officers.
A diplomat said: “I am aware that China is backing Nigeria for the INTERPOL presidency. Its position had not changed as of Friday. “I think Nigeria has some of the finest police officers in the world that can be the President of INTERPOL. Some countries are looking at the Nigeria Police as a whole and these excellent officers.
Although the US Government has not been forthcoming on its position, a researcher, Dr.Ted R. Bromund gave an insight into “The top US priority at the 2020 meeting of INTERPOL General Assembly.”
“While the agenda for Interpol reform is wide, the U.S. must anticipate that the autocracies will make a bid in particular to win Interpol’s presidency, and defeating that bid-not reforming Interpol-will have to be the top priority in 2020.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp