Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu has proposed that revenue from the Lekki Toll Gate be donated to confirmed victims of the shooting that occurred during the #EndSARS protest.
In a statement at the weekend, the former governor of Lagos state also proposed that the Lagos state government should let the tollgate be left closed for an indefinite period.
“If it is reopened, revenues should be donated to the confirmed victims of the Lekki attack as well as to other identifiable victims of police brutality in Lagos.
“Let government use the money to compensate and take care of those who have lost life or limb in the struggle for all citizens to go about the quiet, peaceful enjoyment of life without fear of undue harassment at this or that checkpoint.’’
On the allegations that he owned the Lekki toll gate concession, Tinubu refuted the claims, saying the toll gate was a public asset of which he had no business interest in.
The APC leader condemned the use of force on peaceful protesters. The use of strong force against any peaceful protesters is indefensible. It is completely outside the norms of a democratic society and progressive political culture to which I have aspired and devoted public life.
“It is my firm belief that no one should be harassed, injured or possibly killed for doing what they have the constitutional right to do in making their contribution to a better, more equitable society.’’
He said: “Along with all well-meaning, patriotic Nigerians, I want to see an end to all forms of institutionalised brutality and l shall do my utmost to see that this humane objective is realized. For, if these protests can generate meaningful reform, our youths would have achieved a compound national success.
“First, they would have ended the terrible matter of institutionalized police brutality. Second, Nigeria would have made an important accretion to our political culture whereby the government listened to and acted on the recommendations of ordinary people protesting against the wrongs done to them.
“This would establish a healthy precedent. Yet such durable progress can be made only if the government respects the protesters and protesters actively negotiate with the government,’’ he said.
The APC leader said that the government should not curtail protests as the people have chosen it as their preferred way to interface with the government on this issue.
Share this on WhatsApp