Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), has expressed his covert support for Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State who demanded that deployment of SARS to Borno to fight Boko Haram. Fayemi in a media interaction on Channels Television advocated that the government should allow SARS to work where unit of the Nigeria Police is effective.
Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State had earlier demanded President Buhari to order the redeployment of the SARS operatives to Borno State to join the military in fight Boko Haram.
Fayemi had expressed his support for the #ENDSARS protesting youths in Nigeria agitating against police brutality and extra-judicial killings and demanding for a police force that is accountable. He insisted that there is nothing wrong in what the young people are doing, adding that they should be encouraged to ask more questions.
The Ekiti governor was, however, of the view: “in areas where F-SARS has been efficient and effective, we should really allow them to continue to do the work.”
Fayemi urged the federal and state governments to make thorough investigations and get to the depth of all issues or abuses being protested by the Nigerian youths.
The NGF Chairman promised that any official indicted of human rights abuses in the F-SARS unit will be made to face the wrath of the law.
Some Northern Governors had at a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, on Thursday rejected the disbandment of SARS by the federal government. Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, had after the meeting with the President said: “As SARS is banned, we are now looking forward to an opinion because most of the states in the north said no.
“They want SARS because SARS help them. A lot of SARS people help them. Borno said if not SARS, we would not have been surviving today, Niger and almost all parts.
“If we are addressing it like that, what is going wrong in some places? Is it the process of recruitment? Is it the character of people?”
The governor, however, advocated total overhaul of the Nigeria Police.
Share this on WhatsApp