Share this on WhatsApp
 


By Ediale Kingsley
Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has placed a ban on the #EndSars protest in the state. He made this statement on Monday night as he instructed the Police in the state to ensure the ban is effective.
In a statement signed by his Commissioner of Information, it stated clearly that:
“The Rivers State Government  hereby wish to inform the general public that all forms of protests have been banned throughout the State. Therefore, all proposed protests under #EndSars Campaign are hereby prohibited. Government took this decision because the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had already scrapped the Special Anti-Robbery Squad.”


“Therefore, there is no need for any form of protest against a Unit of the Police Force that no longer exists.
Parents and Guardians are therefore advised to ensure that their children or wards do not violate this order.
Law enforcement agencies are also directed to ensure that the ban is enforced and that violators are brought to book.”
Tbe People’s Gazzette challenges the Governors decision,  “Governor Wike just issued an edict banning gathering of Nigerians in Port-Harcourt tomorrow. Mr. Wike, a lawyer and husband of a judge, has no legal basis to issue the order. It is a spurious & illegal order per Section 40 of the Constitution & ANPP v. Police IG (2006) CHR 181.”


Tacha, of the Big Brother Naija fame, tweeted about her disappointments, “Gov. Wike Sons and Daughters of Rivers State stood through the night to defend our votes for you! only for you to deprive us of our right to peacefully protest”.
Fisayo Soyombo, a journalist said he isn’t surprised one bit that Wike has banned #EndSARS protests in Rivers. He said, “Just listen to him speak and the hoarseness of his voice at once gives him out as an out-and-out dictator. These #SARSMUSTEND protests have only exposed him. Wike thinks the youth are weak; he’ll find out 2moro.”
Amnesty International already stated that Governor of Rivers State Nyesom Wike @GovWike must be held accountable for any violation of protesters.
Share this on WhatsApp