Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Federal Government and labour unions in the country are set to resume negotiation next week after it was suspended following the #EndSARS protest that nearly crippled the economy.
Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo (SAN) who disclosed this on Thursday, said the seven-man technical sub-committee set up to review the increase in electricity tariffs will meet with power Distribution Companies (DisCos) and electricity consumers across the six geo-political zones.
The committee will look at the issue of gas pricing, which is being sold to DISCOS in dollars. The committee is also expected to look at the issue of banding for electricity consumers in the second phase of its assignment.
It has two months to submit its report.
Before the #ENDSARS protests commenced on October 10, the sub-committee submitted its first report to the larger house comprising the government team and organised labour.
After consideration of the interim report, which was submitted to the larger house on October 11, the committee was given two months to work around the issues surrounding the hike in electricity tariff.
The National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) will commence the distribution of free electricity meters to Nigerians in Kano, Kaduna, Eko and Ikeja DISCO franchise areas today. The scheme will be simultaneously launched.
Presidency said the locations where meters will be received include Bawo Road and environs in Kano metropolis (KEDCO), Governor Road/Tudun Wada in Kaduna (Kaduna Electric), Oshodi Business Unit in Ikeja (Ikeja Electric), and Yaba and Surulere (Eko DISCO).
The Presidency source added that key stakeholders to monitor the launch of the distribution include Kaduna, Kano and Lagos State government representatives, the Senate Committee and House Chair on Power as well as representatives of Organized Labour and Civil Society Organizations.
He said the NMMP is to roll out six million meters for all connection points on the grid without meters over the next 18 to 24 months, estimating to impact 30 million consumers nationwide.
He added that the launch of the NMMP would be part of a continuous effort where all DisCos would go from location to location across the country with their respective Meter Asset Providers to install meters for all Nigerians.
Mr. Laolu Akande, a Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, confirmed the story, but added that more details would emerge as the distribution progresses across the country.
He added that current efforts by the federal government on improving power supply and mass metering was in line with some of the agreements recently reached between the Federal Government and Organised Labour.
 
Share this on WhatsApp