Share this on WhatsApp
By Ediale Kingsley


 


As the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, announced the dissolution of the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS), on Sunday at the force headquarters in Abuja. Nigerians have shown that the masses can force the Government to bow to the demands of it’s citizens.
According to Amnesty International, SARS, the police unit created to protect Nigerians has instead become a danger to the society, torturing its victims with complete impunity while fomenting a toxic climate of fear and corruption.
The dissolution of this Police unit didn’t come cheap. It took a number of bold celebrities and the lives of some protesters. One of such slain protesters is Jimoh Isiaka. He was among the scores of protesters in Ogbomoso. the Oyo State capital, on Saturday. He was killed by a stray bullet, even though the police denied firing live bullets, saying its officials only used teargas to disperse the protesters.





While the police fired bullets, Nigerian celebs were able to organized more protesters even as they masterminded a global social media awareness campaign against SARS. Dominating Nigeria Twitter and World Twitter with the trending hash tag #EndSars and #EndSarsProtest.
Omoyele Sowore, the Revolution Now activist, first made an attempt of tapping into the huge followership that pop music superstars have as assets. But when he threw an open invitation to self acclaimed African Giant, Burna Boy. His invitation was openly rejected and Burna distanced himself from protest billed for October 1. Needless to say that the protest did hold but without the desired spark.
Few days later Naira Marley inspired a move but soon repented of his planed protest after the Nigerian Police made contact with him. And the situation reminded everyone of Tuface Idibia, another music superstar, who once planned but later cancelled a protest move.
Run Town, Falz and a couple of other top celebrities would not allow the failed Naira Marley crusade affect their momentum. And as such 8th of October, Thursday, saw celebs and their followers gather at Lekki Toll gate to commence an #EndSars campaign.
That fire became an inferno, and the spread went across board like wild fire. It became hip hop to join the crusade. And many public icons like Don Jazzy, Dr Sid, Mr Macaroni, Tiwa, Timi Dakolo and others joined the youths on the streets.





And it got to the point where Burna Boy had to rethink his stand. Even Davido, who has a track record of saving Nigerian youths from police brutality, also quickly fixed his entry into the trendy #EndSars protest. Both Davido and Burna Boy had initially minded their personal business. While the former was busy promoting his Bitsika Money Transfer app, the later was granting interviews on why he wasn’t interested in protests.
But protesters started banning Burna Boy’s music in public places. And Davido was being dragged for his silence. It wasn’t long before Burna Boy announced that he would be supporting the protest. He quickly launched protectng2020 and tied a crowdfund platform to it. Protectng2020 was set up to help provide funds for medical expenses and other misfortune that could befall protesters.
The Ye singer also sponsored giant billboards that displayed #EndSars slogans across major spots in Lagos. But that wasn’t enough to appease some already diapleased fans. They demanded he joined the movement on the streets and still cautioned anyone that played his songs on the protest streets. His reaction to the unforgiveness was that, “Even Jesus was cruxified”.
And to media houses that published how it took pressure to bring him into the social media campaign, he had this to tell them, “Very disappointing . Kindly make the silent lawmakers your next headline. This fight isn’t about me”.
As for Davido, he was on his way to Abuja while the IG announced the dissolution. The 30BG singer also had it tough on the social space.







When he eventially had time for the campaign, he pushed a lazy tweet, ‘My people need me” but got a quick slap back, “We can’t do it without you or you’re special please? What do you mean by MY PEOPLE NEED ME? Who are you? Shebi other celebrities are nothing na only you matter”.
Another attempt saw him tweeting, “Abuja tomorrow, who is with me? #EndSars”.
He was also quickly scolded by @Royaltyuso, “David, nobody is with you. Nigerians are already out there and at risk of live bullets and police brutality. Rather, tomorrow is the day you join us!!! Nobody is joining you and nobody is with you. It’s not about you! #EndSarsNow #EndPoliceBrutality”.
Olamide, Wizkid and other celebs outside the country joined the campaign online. Mike Edwards of the Big Brother fame organised and led London Protest billed for Sunday noon. Wizkid was on the London ground to add voice and actions to his series of social media campaign against the deadly Sars.
Olamide was sending money for “hydration” to his protest peeps at Unilag Gate. He tweeted, “Tiwa, RunTown, Toke, Falz, Jaywon, Jamopyper  and so many others. I even see my manager. Everybody don fall out on d #EndSARS matter. So sad I’m not in NIG atm to show my support but I’m with the people of Nig in spirit. Everyone who’s out there protesting I salute your bravery.”






“You denied us of everything we deserve, All we want is freedom to fend for ourselves without being  harassed or disturbed by the Police. I join the Millions of Nigerians to say #endsars Now.”
He also was on the phone making calls that would release arrested protesters.
“Just got off the phone with someone working with the Gov. Of Ogun state. He’s ordered their release. They should be free soon.”
That was his response to this tweet by Ayanyemi, “Peaceful protesters are being held by the police at Eleweran in #Abeokuta. Peaceful protest is a right. We’re calling on @Olamide please help us reach the Governor #EndSARS.”
Monday, 12th of October was slated for more representations of celebrities on the streets. Omojuwa Japhet and Patoranking were planning to join the Ebute Metta movement at the front of Tantalizer Oyingbo by 10am on Monday.
Naira Marley, who seemed to be in a tight situation, by his new romance with the Nigerian Police, attempted to sway the pressure from the police to the National Assembly. Just few minutes before the IG scrapped Sars and bowed to the demand to end Sars, Naira made the following statements:






“Hello Marlians”
“I think our protest should go to the
Senators and house of reps members, they are in Abuja to represent us if the federal Government is not doing the right thing we should hold our senators and house of representatives members responsible.”
“Because they make decisions and direct this country
We elected and voted them in office so they should speak. If we have issues at the state level we can hold the governor responsible
But the senators and house of reps members are the only federal representatives close to us.”
“If our voice cant get to the president it should get to them. Because police has a whole and sars is not under the state government the federal government controls them. So we call on all our senators and house of representatives members in nigeria to seat over this and Endsars”.
And these are the quirky back and forth moves that made Frank Mba, the spokesman for Nigerian Police to described some Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) protesters as “pseudo-activists.”
Speaking at the Sunrise Daily interview on Channels, Frank Mba said there are different categories of protesters: He described the first group as genuine protesters that want an end to the extrajudicial killings of some bad eggs in the police force.
He described the other group as clout chasers, pseudo-activists that are portraying theirselves as influencers, “Some of the people against SARS are the ones that are involved in shady deals; they engage in arm selling, and other crimes”.
This statement didn’t sit well with a lot of social media  influencers. Japhet Omojuwa demanded that Police Public Relation Officer be sacked for that labelling. And it was not only the PRO whose job was on the line.   Many also started calling for sack of the Police IG.
Tiwa Savage’s music video for ‘Park Well’ was to be released this Monday but was pushed back. She said she did not want to distract any one away from the #EndSars movement.
DJ Cuppy ended her Dubai vacation, flew in to Nigeria to join the protest.  Small Doctor, in his Celetial Church’s White Garment, preached the protest in his church’s sunday service.  Actor Olu Jacobs, did not allow age stop him from adding his voice.
Mr Macaroni and co went to Alausa Government house to occupy. And even though Temi Otedola had to get some quick schooling about the situation of Police Brutality and Sars’ ill activities (don’t blame her, the people at the top hardly see these things), she eventually jumped in and protested.
Some thespians like Funke Akindele made no tweet about the situation. And didn’t join the campaign. But there were a whole lot of others like Bolanle Nino, Segun Arinze and co. Enough to let us know that Police may not be our friend, celebrities are.



Share this on WhatsApp