Share this on WhatsApp
 


The peaceful #EndSARS protest in Abuja on Tuesday turned violent as the Nigerian government recruited armed Fulani youths to attack the protesters in several parts of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Trending videos that went viral on social media platforms exposed the secret plots of the government which shielded the Fulani youths in SUVs used by government officials in conveying them to their respective operational locations in the FCT.
Some others were provided motorcycles to facilitate their movements to different locations in Abuja to attack the peaceful #EndSARS protesters agitating against police brutality and extra-judicial killings, demanding thorough reform of the police force.
The Nigerian government has been conscious of the reality that the international community is watching the #EndSARS protests in Nigeria. This has made it difficult to deploy soldiers and the police to confront the armless citizens on the protest streets.
The alternative had become the recruitment of Fulani youths and youths’ members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to attack the protesters in Abuja.
One of the Fulani youths caught by the peaceful #EndSARS protesters was recorded on a trending video confessing that he was paid N500 to join the group recruited to attack the protesters on the streets of Abuja.
In Lagos, hoodlums who attempted to attack protesters met stone wall. Most #EndSARS protesters after the first attack came to the protest venue with dogs for self defence. Some others mobilized to repel the hoodlums.
In Edo State, the hoodlums attacked the protesters with guns and weapons, killing two protesters. The protesters were forced to reinforce the next day prepared for confrontation with their attackers who retreated.
The hoodlums, however, went after burning police stations in the state capital, Benin City, and stealing guns. They hoodlums were alleged to confront the military on Tuesday after the state government had declared 24 hours curfew after the escape of prisoners from their detention cells.
The situation was no different in Plateau State and others.
In Ibadan, Oyo State, hoodlums burnt Ojoo police station, leading to the death of 8 persons among whom were said to be 3 police officers.
Meanwhile, the Nigerian Senate on Tuesday made a resolution demanding President Muhammadu Buhari to make a national broadcast and address the Nigerian youths on the #EndSARS protest across the country.
Share this on WhatsApp