Share this on WhatsApp
 



There is emerging disquiet in the country over the unwillingness of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over allegations of financial improprieties. Several Nigerians wondered that the EFCC was quick to invite the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, for questioning over financial allegations but continues to ignore the petitions against the former Lagos State government. Over 16,000 signatories were mobilized to support a petition demanding investigation of the former governor. The stakeholders are, therefore, asking: “does Tinubu has immunity from EFCC investigation?”
Some of the stakeholders were of the view that it would be in the interest of Tinubu to get these allegations investigated before the 2023 presidential race, on the event that he has ambition to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari after the second tenure.
In a recent allegation, former Managing Director of Alpha-beta, Dapo Apara, had accused the firm, Tinubu, and a former Lagos commissioner, Akin Doherty, of alleged money laundering, fraud, tax evasion, and sundry corrupt practices.
The management of Alpha-Beta, however, refuted the allegations, saying that Apara was sacked by the firm over fraud and corruption. The management also said that the former MD resorted to blackmail to divert attention from ongoing investigations on his alleged corruption.
“The uncorroborated allegations against Asiwaju Bola Tinubu by Dapo Apara, in particular, show that he is bent only on creating sensational headlines to deflect attention from his on criminal activities.”
The firm added that it would use the court proceedings initiated by the former MD to expose “Apara’s misconduct, deceit and fraud and to have the matter resolved by the court once and for all.”
Meanwhile, Tinubu was said to have traveled out of the country.
Share this on WhatsApp