Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Human Rights activist and founder of the EndSARS movement, Segun Awosanya (Segalink) has advised the #EndSARS protesters to go back home, alleging that politicians and commercial criminals have hijacked the protest for their selfish ends.
In a series of tweets, he warned that the youths would be endangering their lives, if they insist on protesting after the government has agreed to all their demands.
“We have strictly maintained that the #EndSARS #ReformPoliceNG advocacy is not a protest even while we maintained that citizens have the rights as empowered by the constitution to demonstrate their discontent. It is obvious that once protest is ignited hijackers will infiltrate.
“Since we started the advocacy in 2017 until 2020 before they hatched the protest, no Nigerian has died based on the #EndSARS #ReformPoliceNG advocacy but since the protest started we have been recording deaths and this hurts as we’ve never exposed citizens to undue risk
“We made progress with the PoliceReform Bill and the Police Trust Fund bill without seeking governors and billionaires. It was organic, transparent and objective. There were no sinister plans to weaponize anything against anyone. But for these ones, their lives mean nothing.
Awosanya said his organization remained committed to the people without strings attached. “We remain self-funded and seek no grants. We will not sell our soul and risk human lives because of greed and lust after power. I’m not interested in 2023. Be careful out there. This is a game.
“We have played our role and done the needful. SARS has ended as demanded and the Police Reform is in gear beginning with the assent to the Police Bills as facilitated. Some of the demands however activated will take time to materialize. Don’t be kept on the streets unduly.
“I hope at this point the authorities will do the needful and make a believer of the people so as not to allow these opportunists endanger more lives even after demands are met. These headlines could have been fine if the issues were not exploited by these lots.” He added.
Share this on WhatsApp