Share this on WhatsApp
 


An All Progressives Congress (APC) member of the House of Representatives in the Nigerian National Assembly, Chairperson, House Committee on Diaspora Affairs, Hon. Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, has called on President Muhammed Buhari to address the killing of unarmed peaceful #EndSARS protesters across the Nation. The; lawmaker condemned the killing of protesters by armed security operatives in the country.
Tolulope Akande Sadipe in a statement declared: “I weep for my beloved country, Nigeria. This is the Darkest Moment in our Nation. The Current Action is Unacceptable”.
She wondered why officers of the Nigerian Army turned against the people they were to protect, firing live bullets at citizens holding the Nigerian Flag and chanting the National Anthem. describing such an “Abomination”.
“I, as a member of the House of Representatives cannot keep quiet in the midst of this abominable action. I was duly elected to be the voice of my people and my people are weeping.
“We need to be honest with one another on this matter. We need to face the truth on the ground. The youths were out there because they are tired and fed up with victimization, daily oppression, injustice, unemployment, untapped talents, lack of opportunity, poor healthcare, poor education and lack of infrastructure and power across the Nation. The Youths are protesting for a better future for themselves and their children. The #EndSARS PROTEST stands for the systematic ROT in our Nation.
“This was about the realities on ground. This was about the ROT since independence. This was about genuine service to the people who elected us to represent them. This was not about the President, this was not about the current administration, this not about North and South, this was not about Religion. This was not about party affiliation. This was about a Generation trying to end the systematic ROT that pervades our society,” Hom Akande Sodipe declared.
Akande-Sadipe was of the view that the Federal Government should genuinely investigate claims some external forces are pushing for the destruction of Nigeria.
“Those alluding, that there is a 5th Columnist within or external, there is a solution. If there is a 5th columnist or external negative force, pushing for the destruction of Nigeria, if we do the right thing, by genuinely addressing the issues that have led to the distrust between leadership and our youths, by addressing the rot that has pervaded our Society/our Nation, the 5th columnist in our midst or external negative force, would fail. But with this action, what have we said to the Youth and to the world.
“This is the time to make the wrongs right and it is not by bringing out the Army to shoot its own citizens, that we achieve this.
“We can still put a stop to this inferno. We must realize that no position is permanent, and it is the country we make that we shall all live in,” she stated.
The federal female lawmaker expressed her empathy families of fallen Youth Patriots, praying that their death would not be in vain.
Share this on WhatsApp