Share this on WhatsApp
Abia State Government has declared a 24-hour curfew in Aba and Umuahia following a clash between hoodlums and the police in the two major cities.

The curfew began from 6pm on Tuesday October 20 and will be effective till further notice. The commissioner for information, John Kalu also stated that at least two police officers were killed in the last few days along with the destruction of police stations.

Kalu further revealed that Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has approved a cash reward of N5 million to anyone who provides information leading to the arrest of hoodlums and armed cultists in the state.

He disclosed that another reward of N1 million was approved for each authentic video evidence on brutality and extra-judicial killings by security agents in the state that will be submitted to the Judicial Panel of Inquiry.

Kalu urged parents and guardians to monitor the activities of their children and wards to ensure that they are not engaged in nefarious activities or predispose themselves to harm or allow themselves to be used to cause mayhem in the State.

The statement read;

“After detailed review and assessment of the general security situation, including reports of armed cultists and hoodlums sneaking into the state from different parts of the country in large numbers, the burning down of at least two police stations, reported killing of two policemen in the last two days as well as leaked plans to unleash more violence on innocent citizens, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has directed security agents to ensure the immediate arrest and prosecution of the hoodlums.

“To ensure the continued security of lives and property of law-abiding citizens, the governor has also directed the imposition of a 24-hour curfew on Aba and Umuahia from 6 p.m. today till further notice.

“This is in addition to the approval of a reward of One Million Naira Only (N1,000,000.00) for each authentic video evidence on brutality and extrajudicial killings by security agents in the state submitted to the Judicial Panel of Inquiry being inaugurated to investigate the incidents.

“Parents and guardians are strongly advised to monitor the activities of their children and wards to ensure that they are not engaged in nefarious activities, predispose themselves to harm or allow themselves to be used to cause mayhem in the state.”

Share this on WhatsApp