Share this on WhatsApp




Worried by the aftermath of various arson targeted at the Police Stations across the land which increased proliferation of light arms,the lawmaker representing Lagos Mainland Constituency II at the State House of Assembly, Hon. Moshood Oshun has urged constituents and stakeholders to brace up and collectively be more responsible in ensuring a secured environment.

Oshun gave the counsel on Thursday while hosting the State Assembly Constituency Stakeholders Meeting, an annual event held across the 40 constituencies of Lagos as initiated by the Speaker of the House, Rt. Mudashiru Obasa.

The Parley themed: Post COVID-19  Pandemic: The Challenges and Prospects, held at the Ministry of Youth Development Centre in Alagomeji Yaba, constituents and eminent individuals in the constituency fill up the venue.

Oshun said:”I urge us all to ensure no issues here,stakeholders have a task to do on security.

“I appreciate all stakeholders for the peace and tranquility in Yaba in spite of the #EndSARS protest and its attendant negatives.

” Our gallant youths cordoned off Iwaya Police Station from being set ablaze,this is commendable and really a thing of pride for me because elsewhere the story is different.

Youths in Lagos Mainland,please don’t hesitate to liaise with the DPO here sitted, give him information at your disposal on likely threats to the security of our area, information is vital for us to be able to ward off or nib right on time, criminal elements.” Said Oshun.

He also raised a concern on the unwarranted level of arson that has been meted out on public utilities and asset built with public funds in recent times.

” It is however, not yet Uhuru, commuters are now bearing the brunt of BRT buses razed down by hoodlums imagine, we were still thinking on how we can increase our fleets of buses.

“Now we need more than what we needed in time past to tackle the challenge  confronting our people, we need above 1trillion to restore Lagos now,monies which could have been used to address other important needs.”

Oshun noted that the yearly programme is a precursor to the  budget presentation by the State Government, as aggregated yearnings and needs of the constituents are given live, based on priority in the annual appropriation document.

“Yearly we have such gathering ahead of the budget, last year people made calls for more schools and the Model College is a testimony to that effect.

He mirrors the impact of the gathering prior to now.

“Three out of the seven roads you submitted has been done;Iwaya,Moore and Owodunni roads on which government is doing repairs on bad portions to make it motorable.

“Lightning of Morris and Finbars road are part of the frantic efforts I made to fix things here.

For the first time in history our constituency can boast of having three substantive Commissioners and it is payingoff real good for us.

The fourth term lawmaker lamented the despicable state the world is in, courtesy individuals lackadaisical attitude, devicing all sort of avenue to breakthrough without recourse to the real essence of life, which in time past guarantees a safe and serene society.

Oshun blames the moral decadence pervading the society on the generality of the populace, who find untoward means to break even in life, a development he said is responsible for insecurity bedevilling the world, “discipline and moral values are fast eroded,we need to return back to the basis.”

Earlier the Guest Speaker, Mr. Funmi Abayomi highlighted the steps which need be taken by all to forestall further spread of the novel COVID-19 pandemic. While urging all to be their brothers keeper by giving timely assistance to the indigents and less privileged one, so as to save lives.

Hon Monsur Alao Owolabi, a.k.a (Batola) a topnotch politician in Lagos Central polity, also made a quick show at the venue before departing to attend Lagos Mainland 1 constituency’s parley hosted by his son who is also a lawmaker,Hon Ajani Owolabi.

The astute lawmaker threw his weight behind Oshun’s progression in the state Assembly, noting that by antecedent he is a sample of a long serving legislator and would whole heartedly support many coming behind on the same altitude.

“Let’s support Oshun’s progression, I can’t stop others coming behind me for I have also serve four terms.

In a chat with newsmen Bertola opined that youths need listen to the leaders counsel, to engender a peaceful society.

He noted that the grave impact and aftermath of various arson that rock the state, will take a long while before it can be forgotten.

“It will take a very long time in the sense that the economy has come down drastically, so with the little they are having they want to start again, then this EndSARS protest started again,so there is a lot of problem, then the looting is too much.

“So we want the government to come out and assist the people that that thing affected. So that they can pick up again.

“People should not do things hurriedly, when things happen like this all the leaders should be able to call all the people in the area advice and talk to them counsel them,tell them what to do when such things happens again, but our boys they don’t normally listen to the leaders.

Only few of them listens, Waheed and other boys are good examples, they did very well as said by the Honourable, other people should emulate them.” He said.

The Yaba LCDA Chairman, Mr Kayode Omiyale was also on ground to welcome stakeholders as he urged them to cease comparing Nigeria’s democracy with that of the developed world.

A representative of a foremost political leader Hon.Wale Oshun at the parley, Mr Danjuma Danmole who is the Legislative Leader of Yaba LCDA lauded the youth led protest but pokes the criminal elements infiltration that led to the wanton loss across the federation.

Constituents however call for the need to ensure continued peace, across the constituency while they also want more schools constructed in the localities.





Share this on WhatsApp