Share this on WhatsApp
The Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 47-year-old security guard attached to a fuel station over alleged plan to rob and kill his manager.

The suspect, Adamu Ibrahim, engaged as a security guard at Inspiration Fuel Station, in Matogun area of Agbodo in Ifo Local Government Council Area of Ogun State, allegedly contracted two street urchins, Ajibola Yusuf and Bakare Ifakayode, to rob the station’s manager of the N3million in his possession and kill him.

It was gathered that the suspect gave the area boys the description of the man, the motorcycle the manager was to ride on as well as his route and instructed them to ensure that he was killed so as to leave no traces for suspicion.

Spokesperson of the command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident in a statement said the street urchins notified the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Agbado Division, SP Kehinde Kuranga, who urged them to play along with the security man while detailing his crack detectives to mount surveillance around the spot.

“Adamu Ibrahim was arrested following a report at the Station by the duo of Ajibola Yusuf and Bakare Ifakayode to the effect that, they received series of phone calls from the suspect that the manager of the fuel station would be leaving the Station at about 8:00pm with huge amount of money running to Three million naira,” Oyeyemi stated.

“They reported further that the suspect gave a description of their intended target alongside his motorcycle, instructing them to ambush, rob him of the money and kill him so as not to trace the incident to them. They stated further that the suspect believed that, being area boys, they would be useful for him to realize his devilish plan; but averred that being area boys, was not enough to introduce them to armed robbery”,

He continued: “The DPO, Agbado Division asked them to continue playing along with the suspect while he detailed his detectives to be on the suspect’s trail. Unknown to him that policemen were on his trail, he continued calling the duo, telling them the description of the manager and the route he would be passing through. Before he knew what was going on, the detectives swooped and got him arrested”,

Unaware that his evil plan had been blown open he initially denied, but when confronted with evidence, he confessed.

“On further interogation, he confessed to the police that the two people he contracted had the semblance of those who earlier robbed the same Station some years ago, adducing it to why he confided in them to carry out another robbery from which he would be a beneficiary to it”, the statement reads.

Oyeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation.

The CP, according to Oyeyemi, has cautioned members of the public, especially business owners, to always have a proper back ground check of anyone they want to employ in order not to employ criminals unknowingly.

Share this on WhatsApp