Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor of Rivers state, Nyesom Wike, says no form of procession or agitation by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, would be allowed to take place in the state henceforth, and has also placed 50 Million bounty on one Stanley Mgbere said to be the leader of IPOB in the state.
He disclosed this in a statement while reacting to the attacks on security operatives in the state by the proscribed group.
Recall that about five soldiers were among security operatives killed in the orgy of violence reportedly perpetrated by members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra in Rivers State using the ongoing #EndSARS protests as a cover.
The attackers reportedly killed three policemen in a bizarre manner cutting off the hand of one of the police operatives that attempted to shoot at them.
Sources said they hacked the police Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC) driver to death, burnt the second victim alive and stoned to death the third policeman. They were said to have burnt over 15 police vehicles, a hospital and an Appeal Court complex located in Oyigbo
In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, Wike said the activities of the banned IPOB were not just dangerous to lives and property, but were also threats to the existential interest and aspirations of Rivers State and all her people.
He said: “Security agencies are hereby directed to stop any form of procession or agitation by IPOB in Rivers State or any part thereof and arrest and prosecute any person or group that identifies with the membership or activities of IPOB in the State.
He said IPOB had no legal or moral right to invade Rivers State or any part at its behest to disturb public peace and subject lives and property to violence or threat of destruction under any guise.
He said: “Rivers State’s love, accommodation and hospitality towards all who reside in and do business in the state are being mistaken for weakness by the banned IPOB. To this end, he warned that enough is enough as the government can no longer tolerate the menace of IPOB.
The governor promised to hold meetings with all leaders of youth groups and community development committees in the State on 26th October to take holistic measures to counter and stop all IPOB activities in the state.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp