Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
After long period of lockdown as measure to contain the spread of coronavirus in several countries of the world, there are emerging indices of health risk of prolonged lockdown. Long period of coronavirus lockdown has been discovered to be creating higher health risk of ‘epidemic of loneliness’.
A former surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy, had earlier cautioned that the world is suffering from an “epidemic of loneliness” that is robbing every one of their health and well-being. It was noted that the situation is getting more critical daily, nursing home residents have been identified to be among those most at risk.
Chester Peske, 98, of Robbinsdale, Minnesota northwest of Minneapolis, was said to be one cautionary tale of what happens when elderly people go from engaged and social to isolated and lonely.
An NBC News report indicated that Peske is suffering from Alzheimer’s and has been restricted to the point that he can only recognize his children when they came to his nursing home for weekly visits.
The continuous coronavirus lockdown is perceived to have constrained holiday gatherings of “more than three families” in California who are being banned by Governor Gavin Newsom. all social engagement facilities have been locked down by coronavirus restrictions.
Peske was said to have tested positive to coronavirus even in restrictions, however, he is asymptomatic. It was pointed out that Peske’s biggest health threat did not come from the virus, but from the isolation.
It was noted that while he can recognize his children in their visits at the early stage, the isolation dampened his cognitive faculty and his social instincts.
Peske’s daughter was said to have met a deeply deranged father. “His head was down into his chest, and he was sitting slumped in his wheelchair,” the daughter, Tammy Roberg, was gathered to have said; adding: “He was not his perky, chatty self.”
This degenerated perturbation whether “quarantines” is really helping anybody that much or hurting the elderly.
It was narrated that “After three months separation, Tammy missed her only chance to see her father by minutes,” as she was putting on personal protection equipment.
Report indicated that Peske’s death certificate listed the progression of Alzheimer’s disease and “social isolation/failure to thrive related to COVID-19 restrictions” as cause of death.
Medical experts identified isolation and loneliness to be responsible for Peske’s death, advocating an end to lockdown.
Share this on WhatsApp